

 forum tag tagging mailing list tagging
Map features
Jump to navigationJump to search
PurgeHelp
Map Features - Other languages
 asturianu   azərbaycanca   Bahasa Indonesia   bosanski   català   čeština   dansk   Deutsch   eesti   English   español   Esperanto   français   hrvatski   íslenska   italiano   latviešu   lietuvių   magyar   Nederlands   norsk   occitan   polski   português   română   shqip   slovenčina   slovenščina   suomi   svenska   Tiếng Việt   Türkçe   Ελληνικά   български   македонски   русский   српски / srpski   українська   עברית   العربية   فارسی   پنجابی   नेपाली   தமிழ்   မြန်မာဘာသာ   한국어   ქართული   中文（简体）   中文（繁體）   日本語 
Other languages...
OpenStreetMap represents physical features on the ground (e.g., roads or buildings) using tags attached to its basic data structures (its nodes, ways, and relations). Each tag describes a geographic attribute of the feature being shown by that specific node, way or relation.

OpenStreetMap's free tagging system allows the map to include an unlimited number of attributes describing each feature. The community agrees on certain key and value combinations for the most commonly used feature tags, which act as informal standards. However, users can create new tags to improve the style of the map or to support analyses that rely on previously unmapped attributes of the features. Short descriptions of tags that relate to particular topics or interests can be found using the feature pages.

Most features can be described using only a small number of tags, such as a path with a classification tag such as highway=footway, and perhaps also a name using name=*. But, since this is a worldwide, inclusive map, there can be many different feature types in OpenStreetMap, almost all of them described by tags.

There are proposed changes to existing tags, inactive features and deprecated features. If you do not find a suitable tag in this list then feel free to make something suitable up as long as the tag values will be verifiable. Over time, you may find that the tag name is changed to fit with some wider consensus. However, many good tags were used first and documented later. For the latest updates of tagging schemes see Changelog.


Contents
1	Primary features
1.1	Aerialway
1.2	Aeroway
1.3	Amenity
1.3.1	Sustenance
1.3.2	Education
1.3.3	Transportation
1.3.4	Financial
1.3.5	Healthcare
1.3.6	Entertainment, Arts & Culture
1.3.7	Public Service
1.3.8	Facilities
1.3.9	Waste Management
1.3.10	Others
1.4	Barrier
1.4.1	Linear barriers
1.4.2	Access control on highways
1.5	Boundary
1.5.1	Boundary types
1.5.2	Attributes
1.6	Building
1.6.1	Accommodation
1.6.2	Commercial
1.6.3	Religious
1.6.4	Civic/amenity
1.6.5	Agricultural/plant production
1.6.6	Sports
1.6.7	Storage
1.6.8	Cars
1.6.9	Power/technical buildings
1.6.10	Other buildings
1.6.11	Additional attributes
1.7	Craft
1.8	Emergency
1.8.1	Medical rescue
1.8.2	Firefighters
1.8.3	Lifeguards
1.8.4	Assembly point
1.8.5	Other structure
1.9	Geological
1.10	Healthcare
1.11	Highway
1.11.1	Roads
1.11.2	Link roads
1.11.3	Special road types
1.11.4	Paths
1.11.5	When sidewalk/crosswalk is tagged as a separate way
1.11.6	When sidewalk (or pavement) is tagged on the main roadway (see Sidewalks)
1.11.7	When cycleway is drawn as its own way (see Bicycle)
1.11.8	Cycleway tagged on the main roadway or lane (see Bicycle)
1.11.9	Busways tagged on the main roadway or lane (see Bus lanes)
1.11.10	Street parking tagged on the main roadway (see Street parking)
1.11.11	Lifecycle (see also lifecycle prefixes)
1.11.12	Attributes
1.11.13	Other highway features
1.12	Historic
1.13	Landuse
1.13.1	Common landuse key values - developed land
1.13.2	Common landuse key values - rural and agricultural land
1.13.3	Common landuse key values - waterbody
1.13.4	Other landuse key values
1.14	Leisure
1.15	Man made
1.16	Military
1.17	Natural
1.17.1	Vegetation
1.17.2	Water related
1.17.3	Geology related
1.18	Office
1.19	Place
1.19.1	Administratively declared places
1.19.2	Populated settlements, urban
1.19.3	Populated settlements, urban and rural
1.19.4	Other places
1.19.5	Additional attributes
1.20	Power
1.21	Public transport
1.22	Railway
1.22.1	Tracks
1.22.2	Additional track features or attributes
1.22.3	Stations and stops
1.22.4	Infrastructure
1.23	Route
1.24	Shop
1.24.1	Food, beverages
1.24.2	General store, department store, mall
1.24.3	Clothing, shoes, accessories
1.24.4	Discount store, charity
1.24.5	Health and beauty
1.24.6	Do-it-yourself, household, building materials, gardening
1.24.7	Furniture and interior
1.24.8	Electronics
1.24.9	Outdoors and sport, vehicles
1.24.10	Art, music, hobbies
1.24.11	Stationery, gifts, books, newspapers
1.24.12	Others
1.25	Telecom
1.26	Tourism
1.27	Water
1.28	Waterway
1.28.1	Natural watercourses
1.28.2	Man-made waterways
1.28.3	Facilities
1.28.4	Barriers on waterways
1.28.5	Other features on waterways
2	Additional properties
2.1	Addresses
2.1.1	Tags for individual houses
2.1.2	For countries using hamlet, subdistrict, district, province, state, county
2.1.3	Tags for interpolation ways
2.2	Annotations
2.3	Name
2.4	Properties
2.5	References
2.6	Restrictions
Primary features
Aerialway
This is used to tag different forms of transportation for people or goods by using aerial wires. For example these may include cable-cars, chair-lifts and drag-lifts. See the page Aerialway for more information on the usage of these tags.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
aerialway	cable_car		A cable car run. Just one or two large cars. The traction cable forms a loop, but the cars do not loop around, they just move up and down on their own side, rolling along static cables over which they are suspended.		
aerialway	gondola		An aerialway where the cabins go around in a circle.		
aerialway	mixed_lift		A mixed lift, containing both gondolas and chairs.		
aerialway	chair_lift		An open chairlift run. These have one or more seats or benches and are open to the outside air.		
aerialway	drag_lift		An overhead tow-line for skiers and riders.		
aerialway	t-bar		An overhead tow-line for skiers and riders with T-shaped carriers for two passengers.		
aerialway	j-bar		J-bar lift or L-bar lift. Overhead tow-line for skiers and riders with carriers in J-shape.		
aerialway	platter		An overhead tow-line for skiers and riders with platters.		
aerialway	rope_tow		A tow-line for skiers and riders where passenger hold by hand or use special tow grabbers.		
aerialway	magic_carpet		A ski lift for small children resembling a conveyor belt.		
aerialway	zip_line		Zip line, gravity propelled aerial ropeslide like a flying fox or similar		
aerialway	goods		A cable supported lift for conveying goods, not passengers.		
aerialway	pylon		A pylon supporting the aerialway cable.		
aerialway	station	 	A station where passengers and/or goods can enter and/or leave the aerialway		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Aeroway
These are mainly related to aerodromes, airfields other ground facilities that support the operation of airplanes and helicopters. See the page Aeroways for an introduction on mapping these features.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
aeroway	aerodrome	 	An aerodrome, airport or airfield		
aeroway	aircraft_crossing		A point where the flow of traffic is impacted by crossing aircraft.		
aeroway	apron		An area of an airport where planes are parked, unloaded or loaded, refueled, or boarded.		
aeroway	gate		The bounded space, inside the airport terminal, where passengers wait before boarding their flight		
aeroway	hangar		A large airport building with extensive floor area for housing aircraft or spacecraft.		
aeroway	helipad	 	A landing area or platform designed for helicopters		
aeroway	heliport	 	A special aerodrome built for helicopters.		
aeroway	navigationaid		A facility that supports visual navigation for aircraft		
aeroway	runway		A strip of land on which aircraft can take off and land.		
aeroway	spaceport	 	A spaceport or cosmodrome: a site for launching or receiving spacecraft		
aeroway	taxiway		A route where airplanes manouevre between runways and parking areas within an aerodrome		
aeroway	terminal	 	An airport passenger building		
aeroway	windsock		An object that shows wind direction and speed.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Amenity
Used to map facilities used by visitors and residents. For example: toilets, telephones, banks, pharmacies, cafes, parking and schools. See the page Amenities for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Carto rendering	Photo
Sustenance
amenity	bar	node area	Bar is a purpose-built commercial establishment that sells alcoholic drinks to be consumed on the premises. They are characterised by a noisy and vibrant atmosphere, similar to a party and usually don't sell food. See also the description of the tags amenity=pub;bar;restaurant for a distinction between these.	
Bar-16.svg
Bar MXCT.JPG
amenity	biergarten	node area	Biergarten or beer garden is an open-air area where alcoholic beverages along with food is prepared and served. See also the description of the tags amenity=pub;bar;restaurant. A biergarten can commonly be found attached to a beer hall, pub, bar, or restaurant. In this case, you can use biergarten=yes additional to amenity=pub;bar;restaurant.	
Biergarten-16.svg
Hofbräukeller Arkaden.JPG
amenity	cafe	node area	Cafe is generally an informal place that offers casual meals and beverages; typically, the focus is on coffee or tea. Also known as a coffeehouse/shop, bistro or sidewalk cafe. The kind of food served may be mapped with the tags cuisine=* and diet:*=*. See also the tags amenity=restaurant;bar;fast_food.	
Cafe-16.svg
Klagenfurt Wörthersee Strandbad Cafe Sunset Bar 11102008 65.jpg
amenity	fast_food	node area	Fast food restaurant (see also amenity=restaurant). The kind of food served can be tagged with cuisine=* and diet:*=*.	
Fast-food-16.svg
Burger king kamen.jpg
amenity	food_court	node area	An area with several different restaurant food counters and a shared eating area. Commonly found in malls, airports, etc.	
Restaurant-14.svg
FoodCourtVaughanMills.JPG
amenity	ice_cream	node area	Ice cream shop or ice cream parlour. A place that sells ice cream and frozen yoghurt over the counter	
Ice-cream-14.svg
Ribnitzer Hafenfest, Ribnitz-Damgarten (P1060946).jpg
amenity	pub	node area	A place selling beer and other alcoholic drinks; may also provide food or accommodation (UK). See description of amenity=bar and amenity=pub for distinction between bar and pub	
Pub-16.svg
Pub.jpg
amenity	restaurant	node area	Restaurant (not fast food, see amenity=fast_food). The kind of food served can be tagged with cuisine=* and diet:*=*.	
Restaurant-14.svg
Caprice Restaurant.JPG
Education
amenity	college	node area	Campus or buildings of an institute of Further Education (aka continuing education)		
Cambridge Regional College main entrance.jpg
amenity	dancing_school	node area	A dancing school or dance studio		
Dancing lesson 16507650.jpg
amenity	driving_school	node area	Driving School which offers motor vehicle driving lessons	
Shop-other-16.svg
Fahrschulauto VW Austria St Johann.JPG
amenity	first_aid_school	node area	A place where people can go for first aid courses.		
amenity	kindergarten	node area	For children too young for a regular school (also known as preschool, playschool or nursery school), in some countries including afternoon supervision of primary school children.		
Story Time.jpg
amenity	language_school	node area	Language School: an educational institution where one studies a foreign language.		
Sede de Berlitz al norte de Bogotá.jpeg
amenity	library	node area	A public library (municipal, university, …) to borrow books from.	
Library-16.svg
Guantanamo captives' library a.jpg
amenity	surf_school	node area	A surf school is an establishment that teaches surfing.		
Surfing School at Chapel Porth (2784337863).jpg
amenity	toy_library	node area	A place to borrow games and toys, or play with them on site.		
Toy Library storage.jpg
amenity	research_institute	node area	An establishment endowed for doing research.		
Aerial View of Glenn Research Center at Lewis Field - GPN-2000-002008.jpg
amenity	training	node area	Public place where you can get training.		
Sede de Berlitz al norte de Bogotá.jpeg
amenity	music_school	node area	A music school, an educational institution specialized in the study, training, and research of music.		
Music school from Rabnita (1980). (9196267787).jpg
amenity	school	node area	School and grounds - primary, middle and secondary schools		
Williamstown school.jpg
amenity	traffic_park	node area	Juvenile traffic schools		
Lasten ajoharjoittelu rata Nordenskiöldinkatu - panoramio.jpg
amenity	university	node area	A university campus: an institute of higher education		
Brock University campus.JPG
Transportation
amenity	bicycle_parking	node area	Parking for bicycles	
Parking-bicycle-16.svg
AAhoops.jpg
amenity	bicycle_repair_station	node area	General tools for self-service bicycle repairs, usually on the roadside; no service	
Bicycle repair station-14.svg
BikeRepairMonterrey.JPG
amenity	bicycle_rental	node area	Rent a bicycle	
Rental-bicycle-16.svg
Rental Row (3561666697).jpg
amenity	bicycle_wash	node area	Clean a bicycle		
Sankt Gallenkirch-Valiserabahn lower station-Bicycle wash system-01ASD.jpg
amenity	boat_rental	node area	Rent a Boat	
Boat rental-14.svg
Münster, Boote am Aasee -- 2016 -- 2375.jpg
amenity	boat_sharing	node area	Share a Boat		
A Boat To Share.jpg
amenity	bus_station	node area	May also be tagged as public_transport=station.	
Bus station-14.svg
Manchester Piccadilly Bus Station.jpg
amenity	car_rental	node area	Rent a car	
Rental-car-16.svg
Hertz car rental office Livonia Michigan.JPG
amenity	car_sharing	node area	Share a car		
U Car Share Shattuck Hearst.jpg
amenity	car_wash	node area	Wash a car	
Car wash-14.svg
Wuppertal - Friedrich-Engels-Allee 130 02 ies.jpg
amenity	compressed_air	node area	A device to inflate tires/tyres (e.g. motorcar, bicycle)		
Air compressor Berlin Plänterwald.jpg
amenity	vehicle_inspection	node area	Government vehicle inspection	
Vehicle inspection-14.svg
TÜV SÜD-Hauptuntersuchung.jpeg
amenity	charging_station	node	Charging facility for electric vehicles	
Charging station.16.svg
Evpost.jpg
amenity	driver_training	node area	A place for driving training on a closed course		
Skid pan at Mercedes-Benz World - Flickr - Supermac1961.jpg
amenity	ferry_terminal	node area	Ferry terminal/stop. A place where people/cars/etc. can board and leave a ferry.	
Ferry-icon.svg
Ferry Reet.jpg
amenity	fuel	node area	Petrol station; gas station; marine fuel; … Streets to petrol stations are often tagged highway=service.	
Fuel-16.svg
Preem Karlskrona.jpg
amenity	grit_bin	node	A container that holds grit or a mixture of salt and grit.		
Grit Bin.jpg
amenity	motorcycle_parking	node area	Parking for motorcycles	
Parking-motorcycle-16.svg
Motorradparkplatz Gifhorn Mühlenmuseum.jpg
amenity	parking	node area	Parking area for vehicles. Streets on car parking are often tagged highway=service and service=parking_aisle.	
Parking-16.svg
P3030027ParkingLot wb.jpg
amenity	parking_entrance	node	An entrance or exit to an underground or multi-storey parking facility. Group multiple parking entrances together with a relation using the tags type=site and site=parking	Underground
Parking entrance-14.svg
Multi-storey
Parking entrance multi-storey 14.svg
Christian Wirth - Tiefgarage Hauptplatz.jpg
amenity	parking_space	node area	A single parking space within a car park. Parking spaces should be mapped within an amenity=parking area. Group multiple parking spaces together with a relation using the tags type=site and site=parking	
Rendering-parking space.png
Israel Batch 2 (149).JPG
amenity	taxi	node area	A place where taxis wait for passengers.	
Taxi-16.svg
Hong Kong Taxi - 1-12-2006 - Shatin Taxi Stand.jpg
amenity	weighbridge	node area	A large weight scale to weigh vehicles and goods		
Lorry on weighbridge, Douglas, Isle of Man - geograph.org.uk - 352285.jpg
Financial
amenity	atm	node	Automated teller machine (ATM) or cashpoint: a device that provides the clients of a financial institution with access to financial transactions.	
Atm-14.svg
ATM 750x1300.jpg
amenity	payment_terminal	node	Self-service payment kiosk/terminal		
2018-07-21 Payment terminal in Kyiv, Ukraine.jpg
amenity	bank	node area	Bank or credit union: a financial establishment where customers can deposit and withdraw money, take loans, make investments and transfer funds.	
Bank-16.svg
Commonwealth Bank branch office.jpg
amenity	bureau_de_change	node area	Bureau de change, money changer, currency exchange, Wechsel, cambio – a place to change foreign bank notes and travellers cheques.	
Bureau de change-14.svg
Bureau de change electronic sign.jpg
amenity	money_transfer	node area	A place that offers money transfers, especially cash to cash		
Dortmund, Western Union Brückstraße.jpg
amenity	payment_centre	node area	A non-bank place, where people can pay bills of public and private services and taxes.		
Payment service center at ZBAA T3 Arrivals (20240207140327).jpg
Healthcare
amenity	baby_hatch	node area	A place where a baby can be, out of necessity, anonymously left to be safely cared for and perhaps adopted.		
Babybox - venkovní strana.jpg
amenity	clinic	node area	A medium-sized medical facility or health centre.	
Doctors-14.svg
Bristol , Central Health Clinic - geograph.org.uk - 1360619.jpg
amenity	dentist	node area	A dentist practice / surgery.	
Dentist-14.svg
Military dentists in Guatemala.jpg
amenity	doctors	node area	A doctor's practice / surgery.	
Doctors-14.svg
Doctors stethoscope 2.jpg
amenity	hospital	node area	A hospital providing in-patient medical treatment. Often used in conjunction with emergency=* to note whether the medical centre has emergency facilities (A&E (brit.) or ER (am.))	
Hospital-14.svg
Guantanamo captive's hospital beds -c.jpg
amenity	nursing_home	node area	Discouraged tag for a home for disabled or elderly persons who need permanent care. Use amenity=social_facility + social_facility=nursing_home now.	
Social amenity darken 80-16.svg
Hora Svate Kateriny - nursing home.jpg
amenity	pharmacy	node area	Pharmacy: a shop where a pharmacist sells medications
dispensing=yes/no - availability of prescription-only medications	
Pharmacy-14.svg
Boots The Chemist At Gunwharf Quays.jpg
amenity	social_facility	node area	A facility that provides social services: group & nursing homes, workshops for the disabled, homeless shelters, etc.	
Social facility-14.svg
Salvation Army Citadel, Hill Street , Newport - geograph.org.uk - 1585015.jpg
amenity	veterinary	node area	A place where a veterinary surgeon, also known as a veterinarian or vet, practices.	
Veterinary-14.svg
Veterinary Surgeon.jpg
Entertainment, Arts & Culture
amenity	arts_centre	node area	A venue where a variety of arts are performed or conducted	
Arts centre.svg
Alhamra Art Centre.JPG
amenity	brothel	node area	An establishment specifically dedicated to prostitution		
Walletjes 001.jpg
amenity	casino	node area	A gambling venue with at least one table game(e.g. roulette, blackjack) that takes bets on sporting and other events at agreed upon odds.	
Casino-14.svg
Sahara Hotel and Casino.jpg
amenity	cinema	node area	A place where films are shown (US: movie theater)	
Cinema-16.svg
Palace cinéma beaumont.JPG
amenity	community_centre	node area	A place mostly used for local events, festivities and group activities; including special interest and special age groups. .	
Community centre-14.svg
Greasby Community Centre.JPG
amenity	conference_centre	node area	A large building that is used to hold a convention		
Irving Convention Center Exterior.JPG
amenity	events_venue	node area	A building specifically used for organising events		
Ludwigsfelde asv2021-03 img08 Klubhaus.jpg
amenity	exhibition_centre	node area	An exhibition centre		
Shanghai new international expo centre.jpg
amenity	fountain	node area	A fountain for cultural / decorational / recreational purposes.	
Fountain-14.svg
Fountain at Milan citadel.JPG
amenity	gambling	node area	A place for gambling, not being a shop=bookmaker, shop=lottery, amenity=casino, or leisure=adult_gaming_centre.
Games that are covered by this definition include bingo and pachinko.

Bingo cards.jpg
amenity	love_hotel	node area	A love hotel is a type of short-stay hotel operated primarily for the purpose of allowing guests privacy for sexual activities.		
Hotel portodiMare Himeji.jpg
amenity	music_venue	node area	An indoor place to hear contemporary live music.		
Vaihn2013.jpg
amenity	nightclub	node area	A place to drink and dance (nightclub). The German word is "Disco" or "Discothek". Please don't confuse this with the German "Nachtclub" which is most likely amenity=stripclub.	
Nightclub-16.svg
Gatecrasher.jpg
amenity	planetarium	node area	A planetarium.		
Planetarium WPKiW.jpg
amenity	public_bookcase	node area	A street furniture containing books. Take one or leave one.	
Public bookcase-14.svg
Hannover, public bookcase.jpg
amenity	social_centre	node area	A place for free and not-for-profit activities.		
Governor Hotel, Rotary Club of Portland plaque.JPG
amenity	stage	node area	A raised platform for performers.		
Jyväskylä - stage.jpg
amenity	stripclub	node	A place that offers striptease or lapdancing (for sexual services use amenity=brothel).		
Seattle - Deja Vu 01.jpg
amenity	studio	node area	TV radio or recording studio		
DOUG.jpg
amenity	swingerclub	node area	A club where people meet to have a party and group sex.		
Swingerclub Cäsars Palace. Spröckhövel.JPG
amenity	theatre	node area	A theatre or opera house where live performances occur, such as plays, musicals and formal concerts. Use amenity=cinema for movie theaters.	
Theatre-16.svg
PL - Wrocław - Teatr Lalek - Kroton 001.jpg
Public Service
amenity	courthouse	node area	A building home to a court of law, where justice is dispensed	
Courthouse-16.svg
Franklinctycrthsapalchicola01.jpg
amenity	fire_station	node area	A station of a fire brigade	
Fire-station-16.svg
Fire station.jpg
amenity	police	node area	A police station where police officers patrol from and that is a first point of contact for civilians	
Police-16.svg
Ploizeiautos Davidwache.jpg
amenity	post_box	node	A box for the reception of mail. Alternative mail-carriers can be tagged via operator=*	
Post box-12.svg
Post Box.JPG
amenity	post_depot	node area	Post depot or delivery office, where letters and parcels are collected and sorted prior to delivery.		
Post office delivery office, Mablethorpe - geograph.org.uk - 1186977.jpg
amenity	post_office	node area	Post office building with postal services	
Post office-14.svg
100px-Pošta Praha 025.jpg
amenity	prison	node area	A prison or jail where people are incarcerated before trial or after conviction	
Prison-16.svg
Osaka keimusho.jpg
amenity	ranger_station	node area	National Park visitor headquarters: official park visitor facility with police, visitor information, permit services, etc		
Talkeetna Ranger Station.jpg
amenity	townhall	node area	Building where the administration of a village, town or city may be located, or just a community meeting place	
Town-hall-16.svg
TownHall-Ljubljana.JPG
Facilities
amenity	bbq	node	BBQ or Barbecue is a permanently built grill for cooking food, which is most typically used outdoors by the public. For example these may be found in city parks or at beaches. Use the tag fuel=* to specify the source of heating, such as fuel=wood;electric;charcoal. For mapping nearby table and chairs, see also the tag tourism=picnic_site. For mapping campfires and firepits, instead use the tag leisure=firepit.	
Bbq-14.svg
Grillplatzusa.jpg
amenity	bench	node	A bench to sit down and relax a bit	
Bench-16.svg
Bench.jpg
amenity	dog_toilet	node area	Area designated for dogs to urinate and excrete.		
Dog-toilet.jpg
amenity	dressing_room	node area	Area designated for changing clothes.		
Korpilahti beach - changing room.jpg
amenity	drinking_water	node	Drinking water is a place where humans can obtain potable water for consumption. Typically, the water is used for only drinking. Also known as a drinking fountain or bubbler.	
Drinking-water-16.svg
Basler Trinkwasser 1341.jpg
amenity	give_box	node area	A small facility where people drop off and pick up various types of items in the sense of free sharing and reuse.		
GiveBox an der Schwarztorstrasse 96 im Januar 2020.jpg
amenity	lounge	node area	A comfortable waiting area for customers, usually found in airports and other transportation hubs. Typically has extra amenities or sustenance.		
SM Prestige Lounge.jpg
amenity	mailroom	node area	A mailroom for receiving packages or letters.		
Mailroom of the New York Times newspaper.8d22741v.jpg
amenity	parcel_locker	node area	Machine for picking up and sending parcels		
Polish Packstation.jpg
amenity	shelter	node area	A small shelter against bad weather conditions. To additionally describe the kind of shelter use shelter_type=*.	
Shelter-14.svg
Réunion Maïdo kiosque pique-nique.JPG
amenity	shower	node area	Public shower.	
Shower-14.svg
Znak D-26d.svg
amenity	telephone	node	Public telephone	
Telephone.16.svg
Red telephone box, St Paul's Cathedral, London, England, GB, IMG 5182 edit.jpg
amenity	toilets	node area	Public toilets (might require a fee)	
Toilets-16.svg
WC-Anlage.jpg
amenity	water_point	node	Place where you can get large amounts of drinking water		
Aire de Valuejols.JPG
amenity	watering_place	node	Place where water is contained and animals can drink		
Drinking Water For Humans and Animals.jpg
Waste Management
amenity	sanitary_dump_station	node area	A place for depositing human waste from a toilet holding tank.		
Aire de Valuejols.JPG
amenity	recycling	node area	Recycling facilities (bottle banks, etc.). Combine with recycling_type=container for containers or recycling_type=centre for recycling centres.	
Recycling-16.svg
Recycling.jpg
amenity	waste_basket	node	A single small container for depositing garbage that is easily accessible for pedestrians.	
Waste-basket-12.svg
Vuilnisbak-Lebbeke.JPG
amenity	waste_disposal	node	A medium or large disposal bin, typically for bagged up household or industrial waste.	
Waste disposal-14.svg
Waste container.jpg
amenity	waste_transfer_station	node area	A waste transfer station is a location that accepts, consolidates and transfers waste in bulk.		
Others
amenity	animal_boarding	node area	A facility where you, paying a fee, can bring your animal for a limited period of time (e.g. for holidays)		
Holmbyre Cattery - geograph.org.uk - 167661.jpg
amenity	animal_breeding	node area relation	A facility where animals are bred, usually to sell them		
Brickfields Horse Centre - geograph.org.uk - 135890.jpg
amenity	animal_shelter	node area	A shelter that recovers animals in trouble		
Kennel 2.jpg
amenity	animal_training	node area	A facility used for non-competitive animal training		
MTAPD Canine Training Facility (26942355044).jpg
amenity	baking_oven	node	An oven used for baking bread and similar, for example inside a building=bakehouse.		
Backofen Emstal.JPG
amenity	clock	node	A public visible clock		
Houses Of Parliment Clock Tower (Big Ben).jpg
amenity	crematorium	node area	A place where dead human bodies are burnt		
Bushbury Crematorium - geograph.org.uk - 259876.jpg
amenity	dive_centre	node area	A dive center is the base location where sports divers usually start scuba diving or make dive guided trips at new locations.		
Diving Center in Marsalforn.JPG
amenity	funeral_hall	node area	A place for holding a funeral ceremony, other than a place of worship.		
Okriftel Trauerhalle 08 001.jpg
amenity	grave_yard	node area	A (smaller) place of burial, often you'll find a church nearby. Large places should be landuse=cemetery instead.	
Landuse-cemetery.png
Odenbuell Nordstrand St Vinzenz IMGP2940 wp crop.jpg
amenity	hunting_stand	node area	A hunting stand: an open or enclosed platform used by hunters to place themselves at an elevated height above the terrain	
Hunting-stand-16.svg
A rised hide closed quadrat.jpg
amenity	internet_cafe	node area	A place whose principal role is providing internet services to the public.	
Internet cafe-14.svg
Cafe internet uninorte.JPG
amenity	kitchen	node area	A public kitchen in a facility to use by everyone or customers		
Montague Burton Residences Kitchen.jpg
amenity	kneipp_water_cure	node area	Outdoor foot bath facility. Usually this is a pool with cold water and handrail. Popular in German speaking countries.		
Wassertreten 1.jpg
amenity	lounger	node	An object for people to lie down.		
Coulée Verte du 14ème @ Paris (28484238796).jpg
amenity	marketplace	node area	A marketplace where goods and services are traded daily or weekly.	
Marketplace-14.svg
Marche berlin002.jpg
amenity	monastery	node area	Monastery is the location of a monastery or a building in which monks and nuns live.		
Kloster Eibingen01.JPG
amenity	mortuary	node area	A morgue or funeral home, used for the storage of human corpses.		
LOWE'S MORTUARY.jpg
amenity	photo_booth	node	A stand to create instant photos.		
Photomaton.jpg
amenity	place_of_mourning	node area	A room or building where families and friends can come, before the funeral, and view the body of the person who has died.		
Funérarium de Wasquehal.jpg
amenity	place_of_worship	node area	A church, mosque, or temple, etc. Note that you also need religion=*, usually denomination=* and preferably name=* as well as amenity=place_of_worship. See the article for details.	Christian-16.svg Muslim-16.svg Jewish-16.svg Taoist-16.svg Buddhist-16.svg Hinduist-16.svg Shintoist-16.svg Sikhist-16.svg Place-of-worship-16.svg	
Place of worship.png
amenity	public_bath	node area	A location where the public may bathe in common, etc. japanese onsen, turkish bath, hot spring	
Public bath.svg
Blue Lagoon 2012-08-23 (4).JPG
amenity	public_building	node area	A generic public building. Don't use! See office=government.		
amenity	refugee_site	node area	A human settlement sheltering refugees or internally displaced persons		
An Aerial View of the Za'atri Refugee Camp.jpg
amenity	vending_machine	node	A machine selling goods – food, tickets, newspapers, etc. Add type of goods using vending=*		
Vending machines at Haeundae.jpg
amenity	user defined	node area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Barrier
These are used to describe barriers and obstacles that are usually involved by traveling. See the page Barriers for an introduction on its usage.

Linear barriers
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
barrier	cable_barrier		A road side or median barrier made of steel wire ropes mounted on weak posts.		
barrier	city_wall		A fortification used to defend settlements in ancient to modern times.		
barrier	ditch		A ditch or a trench is a long and narrow man-made barrier dug in the ground to prevent access to the other side.		
barrier	fence		A freestanding structure designed to restrict or prevent movement across a boundary, generally distinguished from a wall by the lightness of its construction.		
barrier	guard_rail		A rail, typically metal, designed to keep vehicles within their roadway, and prevent collisions or runaways. Right side is the smooth side facing the roadway. When drawing the line in iD, the arrow side points towards the road.		
barrier	handrail		A rail designed to be grasped by the hand so as to provide stability or support.		
barrier	hedge	 	A line of closely spaced shrubs and tree species, which form a barrier or mark the boundary of an area.		
barrier	kerb	 	A stone edging to a pavement or raised path (right side is bottom, left side is top).		
barrier	retaining_wall		A structure that holds back soil or rock from a building, structure or area.		
barrier	wall	 	A freestanding structure, designed to restrict or prevent movement across a boundary, typically made from solid brick, concrete or rocks, and almost always built so that it is opaque to vision.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Access control on highways
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
barrier	block	 	One or more large immobile block(s) usually barring free access along a way.		
barrier	bollard	 	One or more solid (usually concrete or metal) pillar(s) used to control traffic.		
barrier	border_control	  	A control point at an international border between two countries.		
barrier	bump_gate		A drive-through gate used in rural areas to provide a barrier to livestock that does not require the driver to exit the vehicle.		
barrier	bus_trap		A short section of the roadway where there is a deep dip in the middle to prevent passage by some traffic.		
barrier	cattle_grid		A hole in the road surface covered in a series of bars that allow wheeled vehicles but not animals to cross.		
barrier	chain	 	A chain used to prevent motorised vehicles.		
barrier	cycle_barrier		A barrier along a path that slows or prevents access for bicycle users.		
barrier	debris		Debris blocking a road		
barrier	entrance		An opening or gap in a barrier.		
barrier	full-height_turnstile	 	A full-height turnstile.		
barrier	gate	 	A section in a wall or fence which can be opened to allow access.		
barrier	hampshire_gate		A section of wire fence which can be removed temporarily.		
barrier	height_restrictor		A height restrictor which prevents access of vehicles higher than a set limit.		
barrier	horse_stile		A horse stile allows pedestrians and horses to cross a gap through a fence		
barrier	jersey_barrier	 	A barrier made of heavy prefabricated blocks.		
barrier	kissing_gate		A type of gate where you have to go into an enclosure and open a gate to get through.		
barrier	lift_gate		A bar or pole pivoted (rotates upwards to open) in such a way as to allow the boom to block vehicular access through a controlled point.		
barrier	log	 	A log blocking access.		
barrier	motorcycle_barrier		A barrier along a path preventing access by motorcycles.		
barrier	rope	 	A flexible barrier made of rope.		
barrier	sally_port		A secure, controlled entryway to a fortification or prison.		
barrier	spikes		Spikes on the ground preventing unauthorized access.		
barrier	stile		A structure which provides people a passage through or over a boundary via steps, ladders or narrow gaps.		
barrier	sump_buster		A barrier to stop cars (two tracked vehicles with less than a certain ground clearance and width between tracks).		
barrier	swing_gate		A gate consisting of a bar or pole pivoted (rotates sidewards to open) in such a way as to allow the boom to block vehicular access through a controlled point.		
barrier	toll_booth	 	A place where a road usage toll or fee is collected.		
barrier	turnstile		A turnstile, a passage on foot designed to allow one person at a time to pass		
barrier	yes	  	Unspecified barrier. If possible, use a more specific value.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Boundary
These are used to describe administrative and other boundaries. See the page Boundaries for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Rendering example	Photo
Boundary types
boundary	aboriginal_lands	arearelation	A boundary representing official reservation boundaries of recognized aboriginal / indigenous / native peoples.	
Boundary aboriginal lands.png
Entering Hualapai Indian Reservation.jpg
boundary	administrative	area	An administrative boundary. Subdivisions of areas/territories/jurisdictions recognised by governments or other organisations for administrative purposes. These range from large groups of nation states right down to small administrative districts and suburbs, as indicated by the admin_level=* combo tag.	
Rendering-adminlevel 2-mapnik.png
Lake city sign.jpg
boundary	border_zone	arearelation	A border zone is an area near the border where special restrictions on movement apply. Usually a permit is required for visiting.		
Wymiana tablic informacyjnych w strefie nadgranicznej (Babia Góra) - crop.jpg
boundary	
census

arearelation	A census-designated boundary delineating a statistical area, not necessarily observable on the ground.		
Bolinas CDP, California.png
boundary	forest	arearelation	A delimited forest is a land which is predominantly wooded and which is, for this reason, given defined boundaries. It may cover different tree stands, non-wooded areas, highways… but all the area within the boundaries are considered and managed as a single forest.		
20210104 152558.jpg
boundary	forest_compartment	arearelation	A forest compartment is a numbered sub-division within a delimited forest, physically materialized with visible, typically cleared, boundaries.		
20210105 093243.jpg
boundary	hazard	area	A designated hazardous area, with a potential source of damage to health, life, property, or any other interest of value.		
LandmineWarningChileTierraDelFuego.jpg
boundary	health	arearelation	Health division boundaries. Some mappers use health_level=* instead of admin_level=* to specify level in the health system hierarchy.		
boundary	historic	arearelation	A historic administrative boundary (use judiciously).		
OnslowTownshipSign.jpg
boundary	local_authority	relation	Describes the territory of a local authority.		
boundary	low_emission_zone	arearelation	A geographically defined area which seeks to restrict or deter access by certain polluting vehicles with the aim of improving the air quality.		
London low emission zone sign (detail).png
boundary	maritime	area	Maritime boundaries which are not administrative boundaries: the Baseline, Contiguous Zone and EEZ (Exclusive Economic Zone).		
Sea boundaries.png
boundary	marker	node	A boundary marker, border marker, boundary stone, or border stone is a robust physical marker that identifies the start of a land boundary or the change in a boundary, especially a change in direction of a boundary. See also historic=boundary_stone		
Boundary marker - Jeseniky, Czech Republic 12.jpg
boundary	national_park	area	Area of outstanding natural beauty, set aside for conservation and for recreation (Other languages).	
National park.png
Kings Canyon NP Sign.JPG
boundary	place	wayrelation	boundary=place is commonly used to map the boundaries of a place=*, when these boundaries can be defined but these are not administrative boundaries.		
boundary	political	area	Electoral boundaries		
boundary	postal_code	relation	Postal code boundaries. Some mappers use postal_code_level=* instead of admin_level=* to specify level in the postal hierarchy.		
boundary	protected_area	area	Protected areas, such as for national parks, marine protection areas, heritage sites, wilderness, cultural assets and similar.		
Yatsuhigata 04x4720s.jpg
boundary	religious_administration	relation	A religious administration boundary, eg. of a catholic diocese or parish. Use religion=* and denomination=* to specify the church to which the boundary applies. Some mappers use religious_level=* instead of admin_level=* to specify level in the church hierarchy.		
boundary	special_economic_zone	area	A government-defined area in which business and trade laws are different.		
Steung Hav Special Economic Zone.jpg
boundary	statistical	area relation	An official boundary recognised by government for statistical purposes.		
English regions 2009.svg
boundary	disputed	area relation	An area of landed claimed by two or more parties (use with caution). See also Disputed territories.		
Kashmir Region November 2019.jpg
boundary	timezone	relation	Boundaries of time zone		
2014-07-05 12 40 49 Sign for the Mountain Time Zone along Interstate 80 eastbound just west of the Utah border in West Wendover, Nevada.JPG
boundary	user defined	node way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
Attributes
admin_level	(number)	area	Defines level of the division described by the boundary in the hierarchy system to which the division belongs. Usually in the range 1 to 10 (except for several countries, where it is in the range 1 to 11 – Bolivia, Germany, Mozambique, Netherlands, Philippines, Poland, Turkmenistan, Venezuela – see boundary).		
Santa Catarina location.png
health_level	(number)	arearelation	Used by some mappers instead of admin_level=* in conjunction with boundary=health and is usually in the range 1 to 10.		
postal_code_level	(number)	relation	Used by some mappers instead of admin_level=* in conjunction with boundary=postal_code and is usually in the range 1 to 10.		
religious_level	(number)	relation	Used by some mappers instead of admin_level=* in conjunction with boundary=religious_administration and is usually in the range 1 to 10.		
border_type	*	way area	To distinguish between types of boundary where admin_level isn't enough. Used in several different ways e.g in maritime contexts.		
start_date	(date)	area	Useful if the boundary is very recent (or if it will become effective in a near future).		
Connel bridge plate.jpg
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Building
This is used to identify individual buildings or groups of connected buildings. See the page Buildings for further details on the usage of this tag and man_made=* for tagging of various other structures. The building tags are intended for the physical description of a building. For functions in the building (e.g. police station, church, townhall, museum) you should add object with tags like amenity=*, tourism=*, shop=* etc must exist.

For example mapping building=supermarket is not enough to mark place as having an active supermarket shop, it just marks that building has form typical for supermarket buildings. shop=supermarket must be mapped to indicate an active supermarket shop. On the other hand shop=*/amenity=* is not indicating building by itself, building must be mapped with building=* tag.

Key	Value	Comment	Photo
Accommodation
building	apartments	Um edifício organizado em moradias individuais, geralmente em andares separados. Também pode ter lojas de varejo no andar térreo.	
Apartments6levels.png
building	barracks	Edifícios construídos para abrigar militares ou trabalhadores.	
Barracks-sweden.jpg
building	bungalow	Uma pequena casa térrea, Dacha.	
Bungalow2.jpg
building	cabin	Uma cabin é uma casa pequena, de construção rústica, geralmente com exterior de madeira e normalmente encontrada em áreas rurais.	
Koch Cabin.JPG
building	detached	Uma casa isolada, um edifício residencial independente que geralmente abriga uma única família.	
Residential House USA.JPG
building	annexe	Um anexo é um pequeno apartamento independente, uma faculdade ou um pequeno edifício residencial na mesma propriedade da unidade residencial principal.	
Craftsman with Backyard Cottage (Converted Garage).jpg
building	dormitory	Um edifício compartilhado destinado a estudantes universitários (não um quarto compartilhado para vários ocupantes, como implica o termo em inglês britânico). Como alternativa, use building=residential plus residential=university e perder a informação de que é para estudantes.	
Belgrade Dormitory.jpg
building	farm	Um edifício residencial em uma fazenda (casa de fazenda). Para outros edifícios, veja abaixo building=farm_auxiliary, building=barn, … Se no seu país a casa de fazenda parece igual a uma casa residencial em geral, você pode marcar como building=house também. Veja também landuse=farmyard para a área circundante	
Studna před č.1.,Holašovice.JPG
building	ger	Uma tenda redonda, permanente ou sazonal.	
Gurvger.jpg
building	hotel	Um edifício projetado com quartos separados disponíveis para acomodação durante a noite. Normalmente usado em conjunto com tourism=hotel para os terrenos do hotel, incluindo áreas de lazer e estacionamento.	
Hcom 1097758 7 b.jpg
building	house	Uma unidade habitacional habitada por uma única família (uma família ou um pequeno grupo que partilha instalações como uma cozinha). As casas que formam metade de um par geminado, ou uma de uma fila de casas em banda, devem partilhar pelo menos dois nós com vizinhos unidos, definindo assim o party wall entre as propriedades.	
Emptyhouse.jpg
building	houseboat	Um barco usado principalmente como casa	
Houseboat- Dal Lake, srinagar Kashmir.JPG
building	residential	Uma tag geral para um edifício usado principalmente para fins residenciais. Onde detalhes adicionais estiverem disponíveis, considere usar 'apartments', 'terrace', 'house', 'detached' ou 'gemidetached_house'.	
Buchengasse 19.JPG
building	semidetached_house	Uma casa residencial que compartilha uma parede comum com outra em um lado. Normalmente chamada de "duplex" no inglês americano.	
Semi-detached houses in West Street - geograph.org.uk - 788755.jpg
building	static_caravan	Uma casa móvel deixada (semi)permanentemente em um único local.	
67elcona.JPG
building	stilt_house	Um edifício erguido sobre estacas sobre a superfície do solo ou de um corpo de água.	
Inle-Yawnghwe.jpg
building	terrace	Uma única maneira usada para definir o contorno de uma fileira linear de moradias residenciais, cada uma das quais normalmente tem sua própria entrada, que formam um terraço ("row-house" ou "townhouse" no inglês norte-americano). Considere definir cada moradia separadamente usando 'house'.	
Street of terraced housing.jpg
building	tree_house	Uma acomodação, geralmente projetada como uma pequena cabana, às vezes também como um quarto ou pequeno apartamento. Construída em postes de árvores ou em uma árvore natural. Uma casa na árvore não tem contato com o solo. Acesso por escadas, degraus ou passarelas.	
Proper tree house.jpg
building	trullo	Uma cabana de pedra com telhado cônico.	
Alberobello BW 2016-10-16 13-43-03.jpg
Commercial
building	commercial	A building for non-specific commercial activities, not necessarily an office building. Consider tagging the surrounding area using landuse=commercial if there is such use. Use 'retail' if the building consists primarily of shops.	
Sheraton Grande Tokyo Bay Hotel.jpg
building	industrial	A building for industrial purposes. Use warehouse if the purpose is known to be primarily for storage/distribution. Consider using landuse=industrial for the surrounding area and appropriate tags like man_made=works to describe the industrial activity.	
Eley Industrial Estate1.JPG
building	kiosk	A small one-room retail building.	
Kiosk germany.jpg
building	office	An office building. Use office=* where applicable for the business(es) that use the building. Consider tagging the surrounding area using landuse=commercial if it applies. Prefer landuse=retail if the building consists primarily of shops.	
TLV Train Tower 1.jpg
building	retail	A building primarily used for selling goods that are sold to the public; use shop=* to identify the sort of goods sold or an appropriate amenity=* (pub, cafe, restaurant, etc.). Consider use landuse=retail for the surrounding area.	
Macys dep store.JPG
building	supermarket	A building constructed to house a self-service large-area store.	
Comet - geograph.org.uk - 304074.jpg
building	warehouse	A building primarily intended for the storage or goods or as part of a distribution system.	
Copenhagen warehouse.jpg
Religious
building	religious	Unspecific building related to religion. Prefer more specific values if possible.	
Religious syms.svg
building	cathedral	A building that was built as a cathedral. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=*, denomination=* and landuse=religious for the cathedral grounds where it is in current use.	
Saint Vitus Cathedral in Prague, Czech Republic.jpg
building	chapel	A building that was built as a chapel. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=*, denomination=* and landuse=religious for the chapel grounds where it is in current use.	
Andachtskapelle des Moorbad Gmös.jpg
building	church	A building that was built as a church. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=* , denomination=* and landuse=religious for the church grounds where it is in current use.	
Churchstcl.jpg
building	kingdom_hall	A building that was built as a Kingdom Hall. Often used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=christian, denomination=jehovahs_witness and landuse=religious for the grounds where it is in current use.	
Kingdom Hall of Joehovah's Witnesses, 11 Monmouth Road, London.jpg
building	monastery	A building constructed as [W] monastery. Often, monasteries consist of several distinct buildings with specific functions. For active monasteries (communities), use amenity=monastery, for the grounds of a former monastery, have a look at historic=monastery	
Klasztor2.jpg
building	mosque	A building errected as mosque. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=*, denomination=* and landuse=religious for the grounds where it is in current use.	
Khadija-Moschee (Berlin).jpg
building	presbytery	A building where priests live and work.	
St. Joseph's Church, Cardiff - Presbytery.jpg
building	shrine	A building that was built as a shrine. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=*, denomination=* and landuse=religious for the grounds where it is in current use. Small structures should consider historic=wayside_shrine.	
Heiligenhäuschen.JPG
building	synagogue	A building that was built as a synagogue. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=*, denomination=* and landuse=religious for the grounds where it is in current use.	
Synagogue Florence Italy.JPG
building	temple	A building that was built as a temple. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=*, denomination=* and landuse=religious for the grounds where it is in current use.	
Hephaistos.temple.AC.02.jpg
Civic/amenity
building	bakehouse	A building that was built as a bakehouse (i.e. for baking bread). Often used in conjunction with another node amenity=baking_oven and oven=wood_fired.	
Backhaus-amstetten-dorf.jpg
building	bridge	A building used as a bridge (skyway). To map a gatehouse use building=gatehouse. See also bridge=yes for highway=*. Don't use this tag just for marking bridges (their outlines). For such purposes use man_made=bridge.	
Münster, LVM -- 2017 -- 6368.jpg
building	civic	A generic tag for a building created to house some civic amenity, for example amenity=community_centre, amenity=library, amenity=toilets, leisure=sports_centre, leisure=swimming_pool, amenity=townhall etc. Use amenity=* or leisure=* etc. to provide further details. See building=public and more specific tags like building=library as well.	
Scarborough Civic Centre.jpg
building	college	A college building. Use amenity=college on the whole college area to represent the college as an institution.	
(1)Hornsby TAFE.jpg
building	fire_station	A building constructed as fire station, i.e. to house fire fighting equipment and officers, regardless of current use. Add amenity=fire_station on the grounds for an active fire station.	
Blacktown Fire Station - Flickr - Highway Patrol Images.jpg
building	government	For government buildings in general, including municipal, provincial and divisional secretaries, government agencies and departments, town halls, (regional) parliaments and court houses.	
Ministerio de Defensa Argentina Edificio Libertador.jpg
building	gatehouse	An entry control point building, spanning over a highway that enters a city or compound.	
Gatehouse-abdij van park-inside.jpg
building	hospital	A building errected for a hospital. Use amenity=hospital for the hospital grounds.	
Hospital.png
building	kindergarten	For any generic kindergarten buildings. Buildings for specific uses (sports halls etc.) should be tagged for their purpose. If there is currently a kindergarten in the building, use amenity=kindergarten on the perimeter of the kindergarten grounds.	
Unterhaus keilhau.jpg
building	museum	A building which was designed as a museum.	
GD-EG-Caire-Musée007.JPG
building	public	A building constructed as accessible to the general public (a town hall, police station, court house, etc.).	
Dominion Public Building.JPG
building	school	A building errected as school. Buildings for specific uses (sports halls etc.) should be tagged for their purpose. If there is currently a school, use amenity=school on the perimeter of the school grounds.	
Convent School's Pippal.JPG
building	toilets	A toilet block.	
Shui Tau Tsuen Public Toilet (YL-175) 2014.JPG
building	train_station	A building constructed to be a train station building, including buildings that are abandoned and used nowadays for a different purpose.	
Dobrepolje train station.jpg
building	transportation	A building related to public transport. You will probably want to tag it with proper transport related tag as well, such as public_transport=station. Note that there is a special tag for train station buildings - building=train_station.	
Kusatsu-Onsen Bus Station.jpg
building	university	A university building. Use amenity=university for the university as an institution.	
University College Oxford.jpg
Agricultural/plant production
building	barn	An agricultural building that can be used for storage and as a covered workplace.	
EJFrykBarn.jpg
building	conservatory	A building or room having glass or tarpaulin roofing and walls used as an indoor garden or a sunroom (winter garden).	
Phipps Conservatory winter 2015 welcome center.jpg
building	cowshed	A cowshed (cow barn, cow house) is a building for housing cows, usually found on farms.	
Cowhouse Hrazany2.jpg
building	farm_auxiliary	A building on a farm that is not a dwelling (use 'farm' or 'house' for the farm house).	
Horseshoe Barn.jpg
building	greenhouse	A greenhouse is a glass or plastic covered building used to grow plants. Use landuse=greenhouse_horticulture for an area containing multiple greenhouses	
Greenhouse 1.JPG
building	slurry_tank	A circular building built to hold a liquid mix of primarily animal excreta (also known as slurry).	
Gylletank30m.jpg
building	stable	A building constructed as a stable for horses.	
Horse stable - Middletown.jpg
building	sty	A sty (pigsty, pig ark, pig-shed) is a building for raising domestic pigs, usually found on farms.	
Schweinehütten.jpg
building	livestock	A building for housing/rising other livestock (apart from cows, horses or pigs covered above), or when the livestock changes.	
Sports
building	grandstand	The main stand, usually roofed, commanding the best view for spectators at racecourses or sports grounds.	
Grandstand, Cluden Racecourse, 2000.jpg
building	pavilion	A sports pavilion usually with changing rooms, storage areas and possibly an space for functions & events. Avoid using this term for other structures called pavilions by architects (see [W] Pavilion)	
LeytonCricketGround.JPG
building	riding_hall	A building that was built as a riding hall.	
Ehem. Landgestüt Landshut Reithalle.JPG
building	sports_hall	A building that was built as a sports hall.	
Kruunupyy sports hall 2017.jpg
building	sports_centre	A building that was built as a sports centre.	
Goodwin Sports Centre.jpg
building	stadium	A building constructed to be a stadium building, including buildings that are abandoned and used nowadays for a different purpose.	
Nepstadion1.jpg
Storage
building	allotment_house	A small outbuilding for short visits in a allotment garden.	
Schrebergarten.jpg
building	boathouse	A boathouse is a building used for the storage of boats.	
Boathouse at Camp Wild Air, Upper St Regis Lake, NY.jpg
building	hangar	A hangar is a building used for the storage of airplanes, helicopters or space-craft. Consider adding aeroway=hangar, when appropriate.	
IMPA hangar.jpg
building	hut	A hut is a small and crude shelter. Note that this word has two meanings - it may be synonym of building=shed, it may be a residential building of low quality.	
Kennedy's hut edit.jpg
building	shed	A shed is a simple, single-storey structure in a back garden or on an allotment that is used for storage, hobbies, or as a workshop.	
Schuppen 7235.jpg
Cars
building	carport	A carport é uma estrutura coberta usada para oferecer proteção limitada a veículos, principalmente carros, contra os elementos. Ao contrário da maioria das estruturas, uma garagem não tem quatro paredes, e geralmente tem uma ou duas.	
Carport-gewölbt.jpg
building	garage	A garage é um edifício adequado para o armazenamento de um ou possivelmente mais veículos motorizados ou similares. Veja building=garages para edifícios compartilhados maiores. Para uma garagem de aeronaves, veja building=hangar.	
Two-Car Garage.jpg
building	garages	Um edifício que consiste em uma série de espaços de armazenamento discretos para diferentes proprietários/inquilinos. Veja também building=garage.	
Landbouwstraat garages.jpg
building	parking	Estrutura construída especificamente para estacionamento de carros.	
Gießen-Uniklinik-Parkhaus.jpg
Power/technical buildings
building	digester	A digester is a bioreactor for the production of biogas from biomass.	
2012-05-13 Nordsee-Luftbilder DSCF8567.jpg
building	service	Service building usually is a small unmanned building with certain machinery (like pumps or transformers).	
Service building.png
building	tech_cab	Small prefabricated cabin structures for the air-conditioned accommodation of different technology.	
Telenor DSLAM and BTS oslo IMG 9499.JPG
building	transformer_tower	A transformer tower is a characteristic tall building comprising a distribution transformer and constructed to connect directly to a medium voltage overhead power line. Quite often the power line has since been undergrounded but the building may still serve as a substation. If the building is still in use as a substation it should additionally be tagged as power=substation + substation=minor_distribution.	
OesterSkovVejHad.jpg
building	water_tower	A water tower.	
Bad Schwartau - Wasserturm.JPG
building	storage_tank	Storage tanks are containers that hold liquids	
Pabst Brewing Complex storage tank.jpg
building	silo	A silo is a building for storing bulk materials	
Kieswerk II.JPG
Other buildings
building	beach_hut	A small, usually wooden, and often brightly coloured cabin or shelter above the high tide mark on popular bathing beaches.	
Cabines de bain Berck.jpg
building	bunker	A hardened military building. Also use military=bunker.	
Slavonický les, bunkr 01.jpg
building	castle	A building constructed as a castle. Can be further specified with historic=castle + castle_type=*.	
Będzin. Zamek3.JPG
building	construction	Used for buildings under construction. Use construction=* to hold the value for the completed building.	
Riga, stavba.jpg
building	container	For a container used as a permanent building. Do not map containers placed temporarily, for example used in shipping or construction.	
Sparkasse Jena SB-Container.jpg
building	guardhouse	Poste de garde.	
Guard booth outside the South African High Commission in Canberra December 2013.jpg
building	military	A military building. Also use military=*.	
building	outbuilding	A less important building near to and on the same piece of land as a larger building.	
Farm buildings small and large at East Mascalls - geograph.org.uk - 2420722.jpg
building	pagoda	A building constructed as a pagoda.	
Horyu-ji09s3200.jpg
building	quonset_hut	A lightweight prefabricated structure in the shape of a semicircle.	
Quonset.jpg
building	roof	A structure that consists of a roof with open sides, such as a rain shelter, and also gas stations	
Preem Karlskrona.jpg
building	ruins	Frequently used for a house or other building that is abandoned and in poor repair. However, some believe this usage is incorrect, and the tag should only be used for buildings constructed as fake ruins (for example sham ruins in an English landscape garden). See also lifecycle tagging.	
ARZAKAN Ghuki Monastery Եկեղեցական համալիր «Գհուկի վանք» (Բոլորահար) 12.JPG
building	ship	A decommissioned ship/submarine which stays in one place.	
London November 2013-14a.jpg
building	tent	For a permanently placed tent. Do not map tents placed temporarily.	
Krytá jízdárna Hipoterapie - Pirueta 09.jpg
building	tower	A tower-building.	
Bell tower. View from north.jpg
building	triumphal_arch	A free-standing monumental structure in the shape of an archway with one or more arched passageways.	
Triumphal Arch of Orange, built during the reign of Augustus on the Via Agrippa to Lyon, Arausio (14827022832).jpg
building	windmill	A building constructed as a traditional windmill, historically used to mill grain with wind power.	
Willesbourgh Windmill, Ashford, Kent.jpg
building	yes	Use this value where it is not possible to determine a more specific value.	
building	user defined	All commonly used values according to Taginfo, generally building types	
Additional attributes
Key	Value	Element	Comment	Photo
building:architecture	<architectural style>	node area	Architectural style of a building	
Byzantine and Romanesque architecture (1913) (14595684550).jpg
building:colour	<RGB hex triplet> | <W3C colour name>	area	Indicates colour of the building	
Jar burano 4 houses.jpg
[[ Too many Data Items entities accessed. | building:fireproof ]]	yes | no	node area	Fire-resistance information.	
building:flats	<number>	node area	The number of residential units (flats, apartments) in an apartment building (building=apartments), residential building (building=residential), house (building=house), detached house (building=detached) or similar building.	
building:levels	<number>	node area	The number of visible levels (floors) in the building as used in the Simple 3D buildings scheme	
Building-levels.png
building:material	<material type>	area	Outer material for the building façade	
Münster, LVM -- 2017 -- 6351-7.jpg
building:min_level	<number>	area	For describing number of values, "filling" space between ground level and bottom level of building or part of building	
Min level 2.svg
building:part	As building	area	To mark a part of a building, which has attributes, different from such ones at other parts	
Marek S3DB sumOfMoreElements.jpg
building:soft_storey	yes | no | reinforced	node area	A building where any one level is significantly more flexible (less stiff) than those above and below it	
construction_date	<date>	node area	The (approximated) date when the building was finished.	
Connel bridge plate.jpg
entrance	yes | main | exit | service | emergency	node	An entrance in a building. Replaces the deprecated tag building=entrance.	
SF City Hall door.JPG
height	<number>	node area	The height of the building in meters.	
Height demonstration diagram.png
max_level	<number>	area	Maximum indoor level (floor) in the building as used in the Simple Indoor Tagging scheme	
min_level	<number>	area	Minimum indoor level (floor) in the building as used in the Simple Indoor Tagging scheme	
non_existent_levels	<number>	area	List of indoor levels (floors) that do not exists in the building as used in the Simple Indoor Tagging scheme	
start_date	<date>	node area	The (approximated) date when the building was finished.	
Connel bridge plate.jpg
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Craft
This is used as a place that produces or processes customised goods. See the page Crafts for more information on the usage of these tags.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
craft	agricultural_engines	 	A place where engines and tools for agricultural use are planned and constructed.	
craft	atelier	 	A place where visual artists work	
craft	bag_repair	 	A place where bags/luggage are repaired.	
craft	bakery	 	A workplace for fresh bakery goods. May have no shop or be combined with a shop.	
craft	basket_maker	 	A person weaving baskets.	
craft	beekeeper	 	The workplace of a beekeeper (apiarist).	
craft	blacksmith	 	A place where a blacksmith forges tools, horseshoes, etc. from iron.	
craft	boatbuilder	 	A workplace where boats are planned and constructed	
craft	bookbinder	 	A workplace for physically assembling a book from a number of sheets of paper.	
craft	brewery	 	A dedicated building for the making of beer.	
craft	builder	 	A workplace or office of a tradesman who performs structural alterations and additions to buildings.	
craft	cabinet_maker	 	A person who makes fine wooden furniture	
craft	candlemaker	 	A person who makes candles or a manufactory where candles were made.	
craft	car_painter	 	A place specializing in painting cars.	
craft	carpenter	 	A workplace or office of carpenters that work with timber to construct, install and maintain buildings, furniture, and other objects.	
craft	carpet_cleaner	 	A carpet cleaner is a tradesman who specializes in cleaning carpets	
craft	carpet_layer	 	A carpet layer is a tradesmen who specializes in laying carpets	
craft	caterer	 	A workplace or office of one who prepares customized meals for takeout, or provides prepared meals or supplies to a group at social gatherings	
craft	chimney_sweeper	 	A workplace or office of a person who cleans chimneys for a living.	
craft	cleaning	 	Workplace or office of a person who cleans buildings, industrial facilities or windows.	
craft	clockmaker	 	A workplace or office of a clockmaker that is building, repairing or engraving clocks of all sorts.	
craft	clothes_mending	 	A place where clothing is mended (repaired) or altered professionally.	
craft	confectionery	 	A place where the set of food items that are rich in sugar, any one or type of which is called a confection is produced.	
craft	cooper	 	A person or company that manufacture of containers and vessels mainly made of wood.	
craft	dental_technician	 	A workplace for dental technician who constructs custom-made restorative and dental appliances.	
craft	distillery	 	An establishment for distilling, especially for distilling alcoholic liquors.	
craft	door_construction	 	A workplace of someone constructing doors	
craft	dressmaker	 	Dressmaker is a person who makes custom clothing for women, such as dresses, blouses, and evening gowns.	
craft	electrician	 	A person or company that works with electricity or electrical systems.	
craft	electronics_repair	 	Repair shops and service centres which provides repair of computers, phones, appliance etc.	
craft	elevator	 	Company specialized in installing elevators.	
craft	embroiderer	 	Needlework or textile artist	
craft	engraver	 	A workplace or office of an engraver.	
craft	fence_maker	 	A workplace or office of a person or company specialized in manufacturing and installing fences.	
craft	floorer	 	A workplace or office of a floorer.	
craft	gardener	 	A workplace or office of a garden designer or a landscape gardener.	
craft	glassblower	 	A person or company that blows bottles or other objects from molten glass.	
craft	glaziery	 	A place where residential, commercial, and artistic glass is selected, cut, installed, replaced, and removed.	
craft	goldsmith	 	The workplace of a person who forges things out of gold, especially jewelry.	
craft	grinding_mill	 	A device that breaks solid materials into smaller pieces by grinding, crushing, or cutting. The aftermath is powdered product, not liquid extract like oil mill.	
craft	handicraft	 	A place where useful and decorative devices are made completely by hand or using only simple tools	
craft	hvac	 	A workplace or office of a person or company that install and maintain HVAC systems (Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning).	
craft	insulation	 	A workplace or office of a person who does thermal insulation in buildings.	
craft	interior_decorator	 	Workplace or office of a person who does interior decoratoring.	
craft	interior_work	 	Workplace of a person who builds/installs non-load-bearing interior walls, especially drywall.	
craft	jeweller	 	A place where necklaces, rings, brooches, earrings and bracelets and other personal adornments are created or repaired.	
craft	joiner	 	An artisan who builds things by joining pieces of wood, particularly furniture or ornamental work.	
craft	key_cutter	 	A place where keys can be duplicated from originals.	
craft	laboratory	 	A laboratory.	
craft	lapidary	 	lapidary: a gemcutter	
craft	leather	 	A leatherworker; a person who makes things from leather.	
craft	locksmith	 	The workshop of a craftsman who installs or repairs locks and opens locked doors.	
craft	luthier	 	Workshop of a luthier, who makes or repairs stringed wooden musical instruments, such as lutes, violins, and guitars.	
craft	metal_construction	 	Workplace or office of a person who work with metal. This applies to: planning, construction, trade, repair.	
craft	mint	 	A place where coins and medals are hand crafted.	
craft	musical_instrument	 	A craftsman creating musical instruments	
craft	oil_mill	 	A mill designed to crush or bruise oil-bearing seeds, such as linseed or peanuts, or other oil-rich vegetable material.	
craft	optician	 	A place where lenses for the correction of a person's vision are designed, fitted and dispensed.	
craft	organ_builder	 	Organ building is the profession of designing, building, restoring and maintaining pipe organs.	
craft	painter	 	A workplace or office of a house painter which is a tradesman responsible for the painting and decorating of buildings.	
craft	paperhanger	 	The office of a paperhanger.	
craft	parquet_layer	 	A workplace or office of a parquet layer.	
craft	paver	 	The workshop or office of a paver.	
craft	pest_control	 	A business that offers pest control services	
craft	photographer	 	A workplace or office of a person who takes photographs using a camera.	
craft	photographic_laboratory	 	A place where photos taken on a film or digital images are transformed into a more permanent form, often on paper or plastic foil.	
craft	photovoltaic	 	A workplace or office who installed or planned photovoltaic systems.	
craft	piano_tuner	 	A piano tuner or technician. A professional that tunes, regulates and makes the maintenance of pianos. Most of them repair simple problems and some restore a whole piano.	
craft	plasterer	 	A workplace or office of a tradesman who works with plaster, such as forming a layer of plaster on an interior wall or plaster decorative moldings on ceilings or walls.	
craft	plumber	 	A workplace or office of a skilled tradesperson who specializes in (drinking) water supply, sewage and drainage systems.	
craft	pottery	 	A place where earthenware, stoneware and porcelain and other ceramic ware is made by potters.	
craft	printer	 	A small printing business which produces published works such as newspapers, books, magazines, etc.	
craft	printmaker	 	A producer of fine art prints.	
craft	restoration	 	Restorer.	
craft	rigger	 	The workplace of a person who sets up the rigging for sailboats and sailing ships (or possibly a person who works on ropes, booms, lifts, hoists and the like for a stage production).	
craft	roofer	 	A workplace or office of a tradesman who is specialized in roof covering and sealing.	
craft	saddler	 	A place where saddles or accessories for cars and boats are produced or repaired.	
craft	sailmaker	 	A workshop of a sailmaker who cleans, repairs and makes sails.	
craft	sawmill	 	A sawmill is a facility where logs are cut into timber	
craft	scaffolder	 	A workplace or office of a tradesman who builds temporary structure used to support people and material in the construction or repair of buildings and other large structures.	
craft	sculptor	 	The workplace of a sculptor.	
craft	shoemaker	 	A place where shoes, boots, sandals, clogs and moccasins are created, repaired or altered to fit personal needs.	
craft	signmaker	 	A maker of signs, mainly for shops and other businesses.	
craft	stand_builder	 	A workplace of a company that builds stands/booths for fairs.	
craft	stonemason	 	A place where rough pieces of rock are shaped into accurate geometrical shapes.	
craft	stove_fitter	 	A workplace/office of a person / company who designs and builds stoves / tiled stoves.	
craft	sun_protection	 	A place where sun protection is made, repaired, or delivered for assembly, especially awnings and shutters.	
craft	tailor	 	A place where clothing is made, repaired, or altered professionally, especially suits and men's clothing.	
craft	tatami	 	A workplace or office of an artisan for tatami mat.	
craft	tiler	 	A workplace or office of a person who lays tiles on floors, swimming pools and such.	
craft	tinsmith	 	A person who makes and repairs things made of light-coloured metal, particularly tinware.	
craft	toolmaker	 	A workplace of a company that builds complex tools, machine tools, moulds, gauges,... .	
craft	turner	 	A workplace or office of a turner.	
craft	upholsterer	 	A place where furniture, especially seats are provided with padding, springs, webbing, and fabric or leather covers.	
craft	watchmaker	 	A watchmaker is an artisan who makes and repairs watches. Today due to industrial production they mostly repair watches.	
craft	water_well_drilling	 	A craftsman or company who drill water wells.	
craft	weaver	 	Workshop of a person producing something by weaving, may offer products for sale	
craft	welder	 	One who unites pieces of metal with high temperature.	
craft	window_construction	 	A workplace of someone constructing windows.	
craft	winery	 	A place where wine is produced	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Emergency
This is used to describe the location of emergency facilities and equipment. See the page Emergency for an introduction on its usage.

Medical rescue
Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
emergency	ambulance_station	 	An ambulance station is a structure or other area set aside for storage of ambulance vehicles, medical equipment, personal protective equipment, and other medical supplies.	
emergency	defibrillator		Defibrillator (AED), an external and portable electronic device that diagnoses and can correct arrhythmia of the heart automatically.	
emergency	landing_site	 	Preselected flat area for a helicopter to land in an emergency situation	
emergency	emergency_ward_entrance		The entrance to an emergency ward.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Firefighters
See also amenity=fire_station.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
emergency	fire_service_inlet		A inlet that allows the fire brigade pump water into a building.	
emergency	fire_alarm_box		A device used for notifying a fire department of a fire.	
emergency	fire_extinguisher		An active fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires, often in emergency situations.	
emergency	fire_hose		A high-pressure hose used to carry water or other fire retardant (such as foam) to a fire to extinguish it.	
emergency	fire_hydrant		An active fire protection measure, and a source of water provided in most urban, suburban, and rural areas with municipal water service to enable fire fighters to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.	
emergency	water_tank	 	A large water basin or tank for a fire department to take water.	
emergency	suction_point		A preferred point to pump water off a river or other waters for a fire department.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Lifeguards
Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
emergency	lifeguard	 	A place where a lifeguard is on duty	
emergency	life_ring		A floating ring to throw out to someone who is struggling in water.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
lifeguard	tower	 	A tower used by lifeguard to watch and supervise swimmers in order to prevent drownings and other dangers.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Assembly point
Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
emergency	assembly_point	 	A designated (safe) place where people can gather or must report to during an emergency or a fire drill.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Other structure
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
emergency	phone		Emergency telephone		
emergency	siren		A loud noise maker, such as an air raid siren or a tornado siren.		
emergency	drinking_water		A facility that provides drinking water in emergency situations		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Geological
This is used to describe the geological makeup of an area. See the page Geological for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
geological	moraine	  	Any accumulation of unconsolidated rock debris previously carried by a glacier.	
geological	outcrop	  	A place where the bedrock or superficial deposits previously covered under the soil have become locally exposed	
geological	volcanic_caldera_rim	 	The crater (caldera) of a volcano.	
geological	fault		A geological fault is a planar fracture or discontinuity in a volume of rock.	
geological	fold	 	Planar surfaces, such as sedimentary strata, that are bent or curved ("folded")	
geological	palaeontological_site	 	A place with fossils.	
geological	volcanic_lava_field	 	An area with volcanic lava on the ground.	
geological	volcanic_vent	 	A hole through which the lava erupts.	
geological	glacial_erratic	 	A boulder deposited by a glacier.	
geological	rock_glacier	  	Rock glaciers are mixtures of rock and ice that move slowly downhill when active	
geological	giants_kettle	 	A regular hole in a rock created by the rotation of stones in the bed of a stream.	
geological	meteor_crater	 	A crater formed by the impact of a meteor.	
geological	hoodoo	  	A column of rock with a hat	
geological	columnar_jointing	  	Several hexagonal columns of rock	
geological	dyke	  	a sheet of rock that fills a fracture of a pre-existing rock body or when standing alone looking like a man made wall	
geological	monocline	 	Step-like fold in rock strata consisting of a zone of a dip comprised between ~65° and 90°	
geological	tor	  	A large, free-standing rock outcrop that rises abruptly	
geological	unconformity	   	A buried erosional surface separating two rock masses or strata of different ages	
geological	cone	  	A landform with a distinctly conical shape	
geological	sinkhole	  	A depression or hole in the ground caused by some form of collapse of the surface	
geological	pingo	  	Pingos are intrapermafrost ice-cored hills	
geological	inselberg	   	Inselberg are isolated rock hill, knob, ridge, or small mountain	
geological	limestone_pavement	  	A natural karst landform consisting of a flat surface of limestone	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Healthcare
Healthcare features

Also see Map features#Healthcare which includes healthcare features under amenity=*. There is a full list of healthcare features at Healthcare.

See additional details at Key:healthcare such as healthcare:speciality=* and healthcare:counselling=*.

Value	Description
healthcare=alternative	Someone practising alternative or complementary medicine but is not a medical practitioner or a place where alternative or complementary medicine is practices that does not fit into the other categories (except healthcare=yes)
healthcare=audiologist	Audiologist; if linked with a shop please use shop=hearing_aids instead
healthcare=birthing_centre	A non-clinical birthing centre operated by midwives.
healthcare=blood_bank	Blood bank
healthcare=blood_donation	A facility where you can donate blood, plasma and/or platelets, and possibly have stem cell samples taken.
healthcare=counselling	Healthcare counselling, e.g. an addiction centre, a nutritionist, or a sex therapist. Also see healthcare=nutrition_counselling
healthcare=dialysis	A clinic for day patients to get a haemodialysis Dialysis
healthcare=hospice	A Hospice which provides palliative care to terminal ill people and support to their relatives.
healthcare=laboratory	Medical laboratory also called (analytical, diagnostic) is a place that analyses body fluids such as blood, urine, faeces etc .
healthcare=midwife	A Midwife, a health professional who cares for mothers and newborns around childbirth.
healthcare=nurse	Nursing. A facility where some nurses may receive their patients.
healthcare=occupational_therapist	Someone who practices occupational therapy but is not a medical practitioner.
healthcare=optometrist	Optometrist; If linked with a shop please use shop=optician instead.
healthcare=physiotherapist	Someone who practices physical therapy (or kinesiotherapy in French-speaking countries) but is not a medical practitioner.
healthcare=podiatrist	Someone who practices podiatry but is not a Physician on Wikipedia.
healthcare=psychotherapist	Someone who practices psychotherapy but is not a Physician on Wikipedia.
healthcare=rehabilitation	Medical rehabilitation facility; should not be used for a wellness clinic or hotel.
healthcare=sample_collection	Site or dedicated healthcare facility where samples of blood/urine/etc are obtained or collected for purpose of analysing them for healthcare diagnostics.
healthcare=speech_therapist	Someone who practices speech and language therapy.
healthcare=vaccination_centre	a healthcare facility specifically dedicated to administering vaccinations to individuals, to provide immunisation against infectious diseases.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.



Highway
This is used to describe roads and footpaths. For an introduction on its usage see the page titled Highways. See the page titled Restrictions for an introduction on access limitations by vehicles type, time, day, load and purpose, etc.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Rendering carto	Examples
Roads
This group lists the 7 main tags for the road network, from most to least functionally important for motor vehicle traffic.

highway	motorway	way	A restricted access major divided highway, normally with 2 or more running lanes plus emergency hard shoulder. Equivalent to the Freeway, Autobahn, etc..	
Rendering-highway motorway neutral.png
Morgendlicher Berufsverkehr auf der BAB A8 beim Kreuz Stuttgart - panoramio.jpg
highway	trunk	way	The most important roads in a country's system that aren't motorways. (Need not necessarily be a divided highway.)	
Rendering-highway trunk carto.png
A55 trunk road looking east - geograph.org.uk - 932668.jpg
 
Cat and Fiddle Road, England
highway	primary	way	The next most important roads in a country's system. (Often link larger towns.)	
Rendering-highway primary neutral.png
Hunsrückhöhenstraße, Kappel, Germany
 
Tanami Road, Australia
highway	secondary	way	The next most important roads in a country's system. (Often link towns.)	
Rendering-highway secondary neutral.png
L134, Meyenburg, Schwanewede, Germany
 
Vatnsnesvegur, Iceland
highway	tertiary	way	The next most important roads in a country's system. (Often link smaller towns and villages)	
Rendering-highway tertiary neutral.png
Bergedorfer Straße, Worpswede, Germany
 
Canol Road, Yukon, Canada
highway	unclassified	way	The least important through roads in a country's system – i.e. minor roads of a lower classification than tertiary, but which serve a purpose other than access to properties. (Often link villages and hamlets.)
The word 'unclassified' is a historical artefact of the UK road system and does not mean that the classification is unknown; you can use highway=road for that.

Rendering-highway unclassified.png
Sentiero 00, Cantagallo, Tuscany, Italy
 
Kuskealleen, Vordingborg, Denmark
highway	residential	way	Roads which serve as an access to housing, without function of connecting settlements. Often lined with housing.	
Rendering-highway residential.png
Taman Ria Terrace.jpg
 
Main Street, Elko, Nevada, USA
Link roads
highway	motorway_link	way	The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a motorway from/to a motorway or lower class highway. Normally with the same motorway restrictions.	
Rendering-highway motorway link.png
A5 exit link to A672, Darmstadt, Germany
highway	trunk_link	way	The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a trunk road from/to a trunk road or lower class highway.	
Rendering-highway trunk link.png
A7 / OAL23 interchange, Nesselwang, Germany
highway	primary_link	way	The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a primary road from/to a primary road or lower class highway.	
Rendering-highway primary link.png
B20 exit and entrance to Brunn, Fridolfing, Germany
highway	secondary_link	way	The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a secondary road from/to a secondary road or lower class highway.	
Rendering-highway secondary link.png
APD-40cloverleaf.jpg
highway	tertiary_link	way	The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a tertiary road from/to a tertiary road or lower class highway.	
Rendering-highway tertiary link.png
Special road types
highway	living_street	way	For living streets, which are residential streets where pedestrians have legal priority over cars, speeds are kept very low.	
Living street osm.png
beginning of a living street with a paving stones surface and some trees and cars parking at the sides
highway	service	way area	For access roads to, or within an industrial estate, camp site, business park, car park, alleys, etc. Can be used in conjunction with service=* to indicate the type of usage and with access=* to indicate who can use it and in what circumstances.	
Rendering-highway service.png
Alley leading from the High Street to Green Lane Shopping Centre - geograph.org.uk - 942796.jpg
highway	pedestrian	way area	For roads used mainly/exclusively for pedestrians in shopping and some residential areas which may allow access by motorised vehicles only for very limited periods of the day. To create a 'square' or 'plaza' create a closed way and tag as pedestrian and also with area=yes.	
Pedestrian with area osm.png
Cambridge Rd - geograph.org.uk - 1189572.jpg
highway	track	way	Roads for mostly agricultural or forestry uses. To describe the quality of a track, see tracktype=*. Note: Although tracks are often rough with unpaved surfaces, this tag is not describing the quality of a road but its use. Consequently, if you want to tag a general use road, use one of the general highway values instead of track.	
Rendering-highway track.png
Frühlingslandschft Aaretal Schweiz.jpg
 
Asphalt track.jpg
highway	bus_guideway	way	A busway where the vehicle guided by the way (though not a railway) and is not suitable for other traffic. Please note: this is not a normal bus lane, use access=no, psv=yes instead!	
Rendering-highway-bus guideway-mapnik.png
Bus track.jpg
highway	escape	way	For runaway truck ramps, runaway truck lanes, emergency escape ramps, or truck arrester beds. It enables vehicles with braking failure to safely stop.		
A7-Notbremsweg.jpg
highway	raceway	way	A course or track for (motor) racing	
Rendering-highway-raceway-mapnik.png
Fuji Speedway start-finish.jpg
highway	road	way	A road/way/street/motorway/etc. of unknown type. It can stand for anything ranging from a footpath to a motorway. This tag should only be used temporarily until the road/way/etc. has been properly surveyed. If you do know the road type, do not use this value, instead use one of the more specific highway=* values.	
Rendering-highway-road-mapnik.png
Road.png
highway	busway	way	A dedicated roadway for bus rapid transit systems		
grade-seperated section of busway outside of station
Paths
highway	footway	way area	For designated footpaths; i.e., mainly/exclusively for pedestrians. This includes walking tracks and gravel paths. If bicycles are allowed as well, you can indicate this by adding a bicycle=yes tag. Should not be used for paths where the primary or intended usage is unknown. Use highway=pedestrian for pedestrianised roads in shopping or residential areas and highway=track if it is usable by agricultural or similar vehicles. For ramps (sloped paths without steps), combine this tag with incline=*.	
Rendering-highway footway.png
Footway in Stowupland - geograph.org.uk - 1044849.jpg
highway	bridleway	way	For horse riders. Pedestrians are usually also permitted, cyclists may be permitted depending on local rules/laws. Motor vehicles are forbidden.	
Rendering-highway bridleway.png
Bridleway-reitweg-de.jpg
highway	steps	way	For flights of steps (stairs) on footways. Use with step_count=* to indicate the number of steps	
Rendering-highway steps.png
Escalinata del Calvario de Toluca.jpg
highway	corridor	way	For a hallway inside of a building.		
HK TST Star House mall corridor interior shop signs Sept-2012.JPG
highway	path	way	A non-specific path. Use highway=footway for paths mainly for walkers, highway=cycleway for one also usable by cyclists, highway=bridleway for ones available to horse riders as well as walkers and highway=track for ones which is passable by agriculture or similar vehicles.	
Path osm.png
Forest path and trees.jpg
highway	via_ferrata	way	A via ferrata is a route equipped with fixed cables, stemples, ladders, and bridges in order to increase ease and security for climbers. These via ferrata require equipment : climbing harness, shock absorber and two short lengths of rope, but do not require a long rope as for climbing.		
Mauerlaeufer ueberhang.jpg
When sidewalk/crosswalk is tagged as a separate way
footway	sidewalk	way	Sidewalk that runs typically along residential road. Use in combination with highway=footway or highway=path	
Rendering-highway footway.png
200806 Berlin 91sidewalk.jpg
footway	crossing	way	Crosswalk that connects two sidewalks on the opposite side of the road. Often recognized by painted markings on the road, road sign or traffic lights. Use in combination with highway=footway or highway=path. Useful information is presence of tactile_paving=*, wheelchair=* suitability and kerb=* represented as a node on the crosswalk way.	
Rendering-highway footway.png
Zebra-crossing sm.jpg
footway	traffic_island	way	The way between two crossings, safespot for pedestrians, has micromapping characteristics as a detailed alternative to =*. Use in combination with highway=footway or highway=path.	
Rendering-highway footway.png
When sidewalk (or pavement) is tagged on the main roadway (see Sidewalks)
sidewalk	both | left | right | no	way	Specifies that the highways has sidewalks on both sides, on one side or no sidewalk at all		
Sidewalk and zebra-crossing.jpg
When cycleway is drawn as its own way (see Bicycle)
highway	cycleway	way	For designated cycleways. Add foot=*, though it may be avoided if default-access-restrictions do apply.	
Cycleway osm.png
Separated cycleway with traffic sign
Cycleway tagged on the main roadway or lane (see Bicycle)
cycleway	lane	way	A lane is a route that lies within the roadway		
Fietsstrook Herenweg Oudorp.jpg
cycleway	opposite	way	Deprecated variant for ways with oneway=yes where it is legally permitted to cycle in both directions. Replaced by oneway:bicycle=no.		
Sul bxl 01.JPG
cycleway	opposite_lane	way	Deprecated variant for ways with oneway=yes that have a cycling lane going the opposite direction of normal traffic flow (a "contraflow" lane). Replaced by oneway:bicycle=no + cycleway:left=lane/cycleway:right=lane + cycleway:left:oneway=-1/cycleway:right:oneway=-1.		
France road sign C24a-2.svg
cycleway	track	way	A track provides a route that is separated from traffic. In the United States, this term is often used to refer to bike lanes that are separated from lanes for cars by pavement buffers, bollards, parking lanes, and curbs. Note that a cycle track may alternatively be drawn as a separate way next to the road which is tagged as highway=cycleway.		
Cycle nexttoroad.jpg
cycleway	opposite_track	way	Deprecated variant for ways with oneway=yes that have a cycling track going the opposite direction of normal traffic flow. Replaced by oneway:bicycle=no + cycleway:left=track/cycleway:right=track + cycleway:left:oneway=-1/cycleway:right:oneway=-1.		
549c Spitzenkiel140923.jpg
cycleway	share_busway	way	There is a bus lane that cyclists are permitted to use.		
Busandbike.jpg
cycleway	opposite_share_busway	way	Deprecated variant for ways with oneway=yes that have a bus lane that cyclists are also permitted to use, and which go in the opposite direction to normal traffic flow (a "contraflow" bus lane). Replaced by oneway:bicycle=no + cycleway:left=share_busway/cycleway:right=share_busway + cycleway:left:oneway=-1/cycleway:right:oneway=-1.		
2010-01-02 15.19.16.jpg
cycleway	shared_lane	way	Cyclists share a lane with motor vehicles, there are markings reminding about this. In some places these markings are known as "sharrows" ('sharing arrows') and this is the tag to use for those.		
Sharrows Toronto 2011.jpg
Busways tagged on the main roadway or lane (see Bus lanes)
busway	lane	way	Deprecated variant to tag bus lanes. Replaced by bus/psv lane tagging lanes:bus=* / lanes:psv=*) / bus:lanes=* / psv:lanes=*		
2010-01-02 15.19.16.jpg
busway	opposite	way	Deprecated variant for ways with oneway=yes where buses are legally permitted to travel in both directions. Replaced by oneway:bus=no		
busway	opposite_lane	way	Deprecated variant for ways with oneway=yes that have a bus lane which go in the opposite direction to normal traffic flow (a "contraflow" bus lane). Replaced by oneway:bus=no and lanes:bus=* / lanes:psv=*) / bus:lanes=* / psv:lanes=*		
Street parking tagged on the main roadway (see Street parking)
parking:left / :right / :both
(hereafter: parking:side)	lane | street_side | on_kerb | half_on_kerb | shoulder | no | separate | yes	way	Primary key to record parking along the street. Describes the parking position of parked vehicles in the street.		
Darby Street Pre-Shared Space Change.jpg
parking:sideorientation=*	parallel | diagonal | perpendicular	way	To specify the orientation of parked vehicles if there is street parking.		
Lifecycle (see also lifecycle prefixes)
highway	proposed	way	For planned roads, use with proposed=* and a value of the proposed highway value.		
highway	construction	way	For roads under construction. Use construction=* to hold the value for the completed road.	
Rendering-highway construction tertiary carto.png
different colours	
The T12 link road to Wilmore Road under construction - geograph.org.uk - 4452080.jpg
Attributes
abutters	commercial | industrial | mixed | residential | retail etc.	way	See Key:abutters for more details.		
Microsoft Germany Headquarters Munich.jpg
bicycle_road	yes	way	A bicycle road is a road designated for bicycles. If residential streets get the status of bicycle roads, normally, by special signs, motor traffic is admitted with limited speed, often only for residents.		
456Humboldtstr.jpg
bus_bay	both | left | right	way	A bus bay outside the main carriageway for boarding/alighting		
1033@970.jpg
change	yes | no | not_right | not_left | only_right | only_left	way	Specify the allowed/forbidden lane changes		
Only Only Only (49884679761).jpg
destination	<place name of destination>	way	Destination when following a linear feature		
Japanese Road sign (Direction and Lane A).svg
embankment	yes | dyke	way	A dyke or a raised bank to carry a road, railway, or canal across a low-lying or wet area.		
Green River Trail - Desimone Levee 01.jpg
embedded_rails	yes | <type of railway>	way	A highway on which non-railway traffic is also allowed has railway tracks embedded in it but the rails are mapped as separate ways.		
Ruusulankatu tram rails (at lat 60.18206, lon 24.92450) heading NW.jpg
ford	yes	node way	The road crosses through stream or river, vehicles must enter any water.		
Ford across Ai river.jpg
frontage_road	yes	way	A frontage road.		
ice_road	yes	way	A highway is laid upon frozen water basin, definitely doesn't exist in summer.		
Pechora crossing.jpg
incline	Number % | ° | up | down	node way	Incline steepness as percents ("5%") or degrees ("20°"). Positive/negative values indicate movement upward/downwards in the direction of the way.		
Incline17.jpg
junction	roundabout	way closed way	This automatically implies oneway=yes, the oneway direction is defined by the sequential ordering of nodes within the Way. This applies on a way, tagged with highway=* already.	
Mapping-Features-Roundabout-Simple.png
2008 03 12 - UMD - Roundabout viewed from Art Soc Bldg 4b.JPG
lanes	<number>	way	The number of traffic lanes for general purpose traffic, also for buses and other specific classes of vehicle.		
NLEx 6 Lanes.jpg
lane_markings	yes | no	way	Specifies if a highway has painted markings to indicate the position of the lanes.		
Reelsen1.JPG
lit	yes | no	nodewayarea	Street lighting		
Berlin speer-leuchte.jpg
maxspeed	<number>	way	Specifies the maximum legal speed limit on a road, railway or waterway.		
Zeichen 274-60 - Zulässige Höchstgeschwindigkeit, StVO 2017.svg
motorroad	yes | no	way node	The motorroad tag is used to describe highways that have motorway-like access restrictions but that are not a motorway.		
Zeichen 331.1 - Kraftfahrstraße, StVO 2013.svg
mountain_pass	yes	node	The highest point of a mountain pass.	
Mountain pass-8.svg
Mountain pass.jpg
mtb:scale	0-6	way	Applies to highway=path and highway=track. A classification scheme for mtb trails (few inclination and downhill).		
Difficulty gauge for the grants process.png
mtb:scale:uphill	0-5	way	A classification scheme for mtb trails for going uphill if there is significant inclination.		
Difficulty gauge for the grants process.png
mtb:scale:imba	0-4	way	The IMBA Trail Difficulty Rating System shall be used for bikeparks. It is adapted to mtb trails with artificial obstacles.		
mtb:description	Text	way	Applies to highway=path and highway=track. A key to input variable infos related to mtbiking on a way with human words		
oneway	yes | no | reversible	way	Oneway streets are streets where you are only allowed to drive in one direction.		
Schildhb.jpg
oneway:bicycle	yes | no |	way	Used on ways with oneway=yes where it is legally permitted to cycle in both directions.		
Sul bxl 01.JPG
overtaking	yes | no | caution | both | forward | backward	way	Specifying sections of roads where overtaking is legally forbidden. Use overtaking:forward=yes/no/caution and overtaking:backward=yes/no/caution when it depends on driving direction.		
Overtakinglines.jpg
parking:lane	parallel | diagonal | perpendicular | marked | no_parking | no_stopping | fire_lane.	way	Deprecated variant to map parking along streets. See section on street parking above or the street parking page for more details.		
Parkingonstreetlanes2nowide.png
parking:condition	free | ticket | disc | residents | customers | private	way	Deprecated variant to map parking conditions along streets. See section on street parking above or the street parking page for more details.		
2013.11.01.104926 Parking sign Kilauea Avenue Hilo Hawaii.jpg
passing_places	yes	way	A way which has frequent passing places (See also: highway=passing_place)		
Single-track.jpg
priority	forward | backward	way	Traffic priority for narrow parts of roads, e.g. narrow bridges.		
Vienna Convention road sign B6.svg
priority_road	designated | yes_unposted | end	way	Specifying roads signposted as priority roads.		
Vienna Convention road sign B3-V1.svg
sac_scale	strolling | hiking | mountain_hiking | demanding_mountain_hiking | alpine_hiking | demanding_alpine_hiking | difficult_alpine_hiking	way	Applies to highway=path and highway=footway. A classification scheme for hiking trails.		
Adventurous Mountain Hikes (Unsplash).jpg
service	alley | driveway | parking_aisle etc.	way	See Key:service for more details.		
Seattle - alley north from S Jackson between Western & 1st - A.jpg
shoulder	no | yes | right | both | left	way	Presence of shoulder in highway		
15-05-23-Berlin-Sachsendamm-Tesla-RalfR-N3S 7354.jpg
side_road	yes	way	A side road.		
smoothness	excellent | good | intermediate | bad | very_bad | horrible | very_horrible | impassable	way area	Specifies the physical usability of a way for wheeled vehicles due to surface regularity/flatness. See Key:smoothness for more details.		
Jena Track roots.jpg
surface	paved | unpaved | asphalt | concrete | paving_stones | sett | cobblestone | metal | wood | compacted | fine_gravel | gravel | pebblestone | plastic | grass_paver | grass | dirt | earth | mud | sand | ground	way	See Key:surface for more details.		
Transportation in Tanzania Traffic problems.JPG
tactile_paving	yes | no	node way area	A paving in the ground to be followed with a blindman's stick.		
Tactile paving.jpg
tracktype	grade1 | grade2 | grade3 | grade4 | grade5	way	To describe the quality of the surface. See Key:tracktype for more information.		
Surface grade1.jpg
traffic_calming	bump | hump | table | island | cushion | yes | etc.	node way	Features used to slow down traffic. See Key:traffic calming for more details.		
Ležeći policajac 016.jpg
trail_visibility	excellent | good | intermediate | bad | horrible | no	way	Applies to highway=path, highway=footway, highway=cycleway and highway=bridleway. A classification for hiking trails visibility		
Trail visibility good.jpg
trailblazed	yes | no | poles | cairns | symbols	way	Applies to highway=*. Describing trail blazing and marking. See Key:trailblazed for more information.		
Trail blazing 10.jpg
trailblazed:visibility	excellent | good | intermediate | bad | horrible | no	way	Applies to trailblazed=*. A classification for visibility of trailblazing. See Key:trailblazed:visibility for more information.		
turn	left | slight_left | through | right | slight_right | merge_to_left | merge_to_right | reverse	way	The key turn can be used to specify the direction in which a way or a lane will lead.		
Zeichen 297 - Richtungspfeile, StVO 1970.svg
width	<number>	way	The width of a feature.		
Height demonstration diagram.png
winter_road	yes	way	A highway functions during winter, probably can't be driven in summer.		
Anuisk bilibino sever66.jpg
Other highway features
highway	bus_stop	node	A small bus stop. Optionally one may also use public_transport=stop_position for the position where the vehicle stops and public_transport=platform for the place where passengers wait.	
Bus stop.12.svg
Průmyslová str3, Prague Štěrboholy.jpg
highway	crossing	node	A.k.a. crosswalk. Pedestrians can cross a street here; e.g., zebra crossing		
Zebra-crossing sm.jpg
highway	cyclist_waiting_aid	node	Street furniture for cyclists that are intended to make waiting at esp. traffic lights more comfortable.		
Cyclist footrest 01 Flickr SDOT Photos.jpg
highway	elevator	node way	An elevator or lift, used to travel vertically, providing passenger and freight access between pathways at different floor levels.	
Elevator-12.svg
Diag3.jpg
highway	emergency_bay	node way	An area beside a highway where you can safely stop your car in case of breakdown or emergency.		
France road sign C8.svg
highway	emergency_access_point	node	Sign number which can be used to define your current position in case of an emergency. Use with ref=NUMBER_ON_THE_SIGN. See also emergency=access_point		
Anfahrpunkt für Rettungsfahrzeuge HP 108 Alter Lorscher Weg 102 1235.jpg
highway	give_way	node	A "give way," or "Yield" sign		
Give way.jpg
emergency	phone	node	A calling device can be used to tell on your current position in case of an emergency. Use with ref=NUMBER_ON_THE_SIGN	
Emergency-phone.16.svg
Emergency push-button telephone, Warsaw.jpg
highway	ladder	nodeway	A vertical or inclined set of steps or rungs intended for climbing or descending of a person with the help of hands.		
Wooden ladder to the small cave, Hurkutstein.jpg
highway	milestone	node	Highway location marker		
3marcoquilometriconovo.png
highway	mini_roundabout	node	Similar to roundabouts, but at the center there is either a painted circle or a fully traversable island. In case of an untraversable center island, junction=roundabout should be used.
Rendered as anti-clockwise by default direction=anticlockwise. To render clockwise add the tag direction=clockwise.

Mapping-Features-Mini-Roundabout.png
Mini-roundabout.jpg
highway	motorway_junction	node	Indicates a junction (UK) or exit (US). ref=* should be set to the exit number or junction identifier. (Some roads – e.g., the A14 – also carry junction numbers, so the tag may be encountered elsewhere despite its name)	
Mapnik-Motorway-Junction.png
Dscf0242 600.jpg
highway	passing_place	node	The location of a passing space		
Ausweichstelle.jpg
highway	platform	node way area	A platform at a bus stop or station.	
Rendering-highway railway platform line.png
Bayview trstwy.jpg
highway	rest_area	node area	Place where drivers can leave the road to rest, but not refuel.	
Rendering-highway-services-mapnik.jpg
Wentworth terrain.jpg
highway	services	node area	A service station to get food and eat something, often found at motorways	
Mapping Features Motorway service area.jpg
De lucht.jpg
highway	speed_camera	node	A fixed road-side or overhead speed camera.		
Speed Camera - geograph.org.uk - 399358.jpg
highway	speed_display	node	A dynamic electronic sign that displays the speed of the passer-by motorist.		
Standard radar sign.jpg
highway	stop	node	A stop sign		
STOP sign.jpg
highway	street_lamp	node	A street light, lamppost, street lamp, light standard, or lamp standard is a raised source of light on the edge of a road, which is turned on or lit at a certain time every night		
2014 Kłodzko, ul. Grottgera 14.JPG
highway	toll_gantry	node	A toll gantry is a gantry suspended over a way, usually a motorway, as part of a system of electronic toll collection. For a toll booth with any kind of barrier or booth see: barrier=toll_booth		
CR0344eRoad-MM4-TollGantry (29081629762).jpg
highway	traffic_mirror	node	Mirror that reflects the traffic on one road when direct view is blocked.		
Verkehrsspiegel.JPG
highway	traffic_signals	node	Lights that control the traffic	
Traffic light-16.svg
Ampel.jpg
highway	trailhead	node	Designated place to start on a trail or route		
Ancient Lakes Trailhead - panoramio.jpg
highway	turning_circle	node	A turning circle is a rounded, widened area usually, but not necessarily, at the end of a road to facilitate easier turning of a vehicle. Also known as a cul de sac.	
Mapping-Features-Turning-Circle.png
Turning circle.jpg
highway	turning_loop	node	A widened area of a highway with a non-traversable island for turning around, often circular and at the end of a road.		
Turning circle - geograph.org.uk - 991834.jpg
highway	User Defined	node way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Historic
This is used to describe various historic places. For example: archaeological sites, wrecks, ruins, castles and ancient buildings. See the page titled Historic for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
historic	aircraft	 	A decommissioned aircraft which generally remains in one place.		
historic	anchor		A historic/retired anchor. Usually found in historic maritime areas.		
historic	aqueduct	 	A historic structure to convey water		
historic	archaeological_site	  	A place in which evidence of past activity is preserved.		
historic	battlefield	 	The site of a battle or military skirmish in the past.		
historic	bomb_crater	 	A bomb crater		
historic	boundary_stone		A historic physical marker that identifies a boundary		
historic	building	 	Unspecified historic building.		
historic	bullaun_stone	 	A stone with one or more depressions		
historic	cannon		A historic/retired cannon. Usually found on forts or battlefields.		
historic	castle	 	Used for various kinds of castles, palaces, fortresses, manors, stately homes, kremlins, shiros and other.		
historic	castle_wall	 	A fortification surrounding the bailey of a castle		
historic	cattle_crush				
historic	charcoal_pile	 	Historic site of a charcoal pile. Often still in good condition in hilly forest areas.		
historic	church	 	A church with a historical value.		
historic	city_gate	 	A city gate within a city wall		
historic	citywalls	 	A citywall is a fortification used to defend a city.		
historic	creamery	 	A creamery is an industrial building where butter and sometimes cheese or ice-cream were made from milk. For rural communities, it also served as a social gathering point.		
historic	district	 	A designated historic district.		
historic	epigraph	  	A historic inscription on an object		
historic	farm	 	A historical farm, kept in its original state.		
historic	fort	 	A military fort, a stand-alone defensive structure which differs from a castle in that there is no permanent residence.		
historic	gallows	 	Remains of a gallows.		
historic	house	 	A historic house.		
historic	high_cross		An early medieaval standing cross, richly decorated, often with a ring surrounding the crossing point.		
historic	highwater_mark		A marker indicating a past flood or high water.		
historic	lavoir	 	Disused lavoir mapped for its historical value.		
historic	lime_kiln	 	Built structure which was used in the past to produce quicklime from limestone.		
historic	locomotive	 	A decommissioned locomotive which generally remains in one place		
historic	machine	 	A historic machine.		
historic	manor	 	Historic manors/mansions having different use today		
historic	memorial	 	Small memorials, usually remembering special persons, people who lost their lives in the wars, past events or missing places.		
historic	milestone		A historic marker that shows the distance to important destinations.		
historic	millstone		A large round stone used for grinding grain or other materials.		
historic	mine	 	Location of historic underground mine workings for minerals such as coal or lead.		
historic	minecart	 	A cart used to transport coal or ore from a mine.		
historic	monastery	 	Building/place that is a historically significant monastery.		
historic	monument	 	A memorial object, which is especially large, built to remember, show respect to a person or group of people or to commemorate an event.		
historic	mosque	 	A mosque with a historical and archaeological value.		
historic	ogham_stone		A stone with an Ogham script on it. They are most commonly found in Ireland as free standing stones, lying on the ground, recycled in buildings such as churches or as artefacts in museums.		
historic	optical_telegraph	 	Semaphore system		
historic	pa		A New Zealand Maori Pā		
historic	pillory		A pillory.		
historic	pound	 	A former amenity to hold stray or seized animals, often walled.		
historic	railway_car	 	A decommissioned railway car which generally remains in one place		
historic	road		A road or street that is of historical importance.		
historic	round_tower	  	Slim, conical tower built as a bell tower and watchtower in Ireland.		
historic	ruins	  	Remains of structures that were once complete, but have fallen into partial or complete disrepair.		
historic	rune_stone		Stones, boulders or bedrock with historical runic inscriptions.		
historic	shieling	 	An abandoned mountain pasture		
historic	ship	 	A decommissioned ship/submarine which generally remains in one place		
historic	stećak	 	Specifies megalithic gravestone from medieval Bosnia.		
historic	stone		A stone shaped or placed by man with historical value.		
historic	tank	 	A decommissioned tank which generally remains in one place		
historic	temple	 	An ancient pagan temple in_situ and in various degree of preservation, such as Ziggurat, Egyptian temple, Mithraeum, Erechtheion, Buddhist, Meso-American and other ancient religious and rituals' temples, with a historical and archaeological value.		
historic	tomb	 	A structure where somebody has been buried.		
historic	tower	 	This property distinguishes a tower as historic		
historic	vehicle	 	A decommissioned vehicle which generally remains in one place		
historic	wayside_cross		A historical cross along a way, symbol of Christian faith.		
historic	wayside_shrine	 	A shrine often showing a religious depiction. Tag is used also for modern shrines.		
historic	wreck	 	A nautical craft that has been sunk or destroyed.		
historic	yes	  	Used to add the historic significance of the objects described by other tags.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Landuse
This is used to describe the purpose for which an area of land is being used. See the page Landuse for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Rendering	Photo
Common landuse key values - developed land
landuse	commercial	node area	Predominantly commercial businesses and their offices. Commercial businesses which sell goods should be categorised as landuse=retail. Commercial businesses can sell services on site and may include private Doctor's Surgeries, and those non-government services for mental and physical health, such as a Counselor's or Physiotherapist's practice or Veterinary. Commercial businesses can also include office buildings and business parks which have limited interface with the public and sell their services either on site, or externally. Commercial businesses have low amounts of public foot traffic.	
Landuse-commercial.png
Cambourne Business Park - geograph.org.uk - 15908.jpg
landuse	construction	node area	A site which is under active development and construction of a building or structure, including any purposeful alteration to the land or vegetation upon it. Abandoned construction projects and sites should not use this tag.	
Rendering-landuse-construction-mapnik.png
Cantiere the Green One dell'area De Gasperi Ovest a San Donato Milanese (Giugno 2022).jpg
landuse	education	node area	An area predominately used for educational purposes/facilities.		
Stąporków, Szkoła Podstawowa nr 2.jpg
landuse	fairground	node area	A site where a fair takes place		
Honre's Pleasure Fair funfair in Inverness from above.jpg
landuse	industrial	node area	Predominantly industrial landuses such as workshops, factories, or warehouses.	
Landuse-industrial.png
Rehuraisio feed plant in Oulu 2008 001.jpg
landuse	residential	node area	Land where people reside; predominantly residential detached (single houses, grouped dwellings), or attached (apartments, flats, units) dwellings. For "Mixed-Use" areas where more than half of the land is residential, tag as residential.
See also: Land use and areas of natural land#Open questions and Land use and areas of natural land § Open questions
Rendering-area-landuse-residential.png
Lawrenceville.jpg
landuse	retail	node area	Predominantly retail businesses such as shops. Retail businesses sell physical goods such as food (prepared or grocery), clothing, medicine, stationary, appliances, tools, or other similar physical items. Retail businesses have high amounts of public foot traffic. Retail businesses do not exclusively provide or sell their services. For businesses which sell services see landuse=commercial.
Generally a member of the public could freely walk into and access a retail business. Retail is a subset of commercial, but should be used and treated as mutually exclusive in OpenStreetMap.

Landuse-retail.png
Trocadero - London 1.jpg
landuse	institutional	node area	Land used for institutional purposes, see Institution (disambiguation). Institutional land may include buildings like an office=government, office=ngo, office=association, amenity=social_facility and their associated infrastructure (car parks, service roads, yards and so-on).
information sign

The meaning of this tag is ambiguous and unclear by some. Consider using another tag that better describes the object. For instance landuse=civic_admin.
MSF bureau Genève Novembre 2015.jpg
Key	Value	Element	Description	Rendering	Photo
Common landuse key values - rural and agricultural land
landuse	aquaculture	node area	Aquaculture is the farming of freshwater and saltwater organisms such as finfish, molluscs, crustaceans and aquatic plants.
Warning: currently, there is no convention on the exact meaning of this tag. Therefore, it makes sense to treat it like "boundary of aquaculture" (without implication of water body), which means, water body should be tagged by its own, using natural=water etc.

Delta Pride Catfish farm harvest.jpg
landuse	allotments	node area	A piece of land given over to local residents for growing vegetables and flowers.	
Landuse-allotments.png
Schrebergaerten.jpg
landuse	farmland	area	An area of farmland used for tillage (cereals, vegetables, oil plants, flowers).	
Rendering-landuse-farm-mapnik.png
Rye field.jpg
landuse	farmyard	area	An area of land with farm buildings like farmhouse, dwellings, farmsteads, sheds, stables, barns, equipment sheds, feed bunkers, etc. plus the open space in between them and the shrubbery/trees around them.	
Rendering-area-landuse farmyard-mapnik.png
Farmyard.jpg
landuse	paddy	area	An area of land where the surface and shape of the land is made suitable for growing rice.		
Rice Field.jpg
landuse	animal_keeping	area	An area of land that is used to keep animals, particularly horses and livestock.		
Open stable Velm Neuhaus.jpg
landuse	flowerbed	area	An area designated for flowers	
Landuse-flowerbed.png
Flowerbed, Abbey Park - geograph.org.uk - 1854212.jpg
landuse	forest	node area	Managed forest or woodland plantation (Other languages). Some use this to map an area of trees rather than the use of the land. See Forest.	
Landuse-forest.png
Fort Nelson Forestry.JPG
landuse	logging	area	An area where some or all trees have been cut down		
Exploitation forestiere.JPG
landuse	greenhouse_horticulture	area	Area used for growing plants in greenhouses	
Rendering-landuse-farm-mapnik.png
Greenhouses westland.jpg
landuse	meadow	node area	A meadow or pasture: land primarily vegetated by grass and non-woody plants, mainly used for hay or grazing	
Landuse Meadow.png
Mottey.jpg
landuse	orchard	node area	intentional planting of trees or shrubs maintained for food production	
Orchard.png
PikiWiki Israel 29753 Almonds grove.jpg
landuse	plant_nursery	area	intentional planting of plants maintaining for the production of new plants	
Landuse plant nursery.png
Cutchogue - Oregon Road - Plant Nursery.jpg
landuse	vineyard	node area	A piece of land where grapes are grown.	
Landuse-vineyard.png
Grape vines.jpg
Key	Value	Element	Description	Rendering	Photo
Common landuse key values - waterbody
landuse	basin	node area	An area artificially graded to hold water.
Together with basin=* for stormwater/rainwater infiltration/detention/retention basins.

Other languages.

Base layer water.png
Boneyard Detention Basin 2006.jpg
landuse	reservoir	node area	A reservoir on Wikipedia. Deprecated variant of natural=water + water=reservoir. See Proposed features/Reservoir for details.	
Landuse-reservoir.png
Amagase Dam.jpg
landuse	salt_pond	area	A place where salt (saline) water is evaporated to extract its salt.	
Rendering-landuse-salt-pond.png
Salt ponds SF Bay (dro!d).jpg
Key	Value	Element	Description	Rendering	Photo
Other landuse key values
landuse	brownfield	node area	Describes land scheduled for new development where old buildings have been demolished and cleared	
Rendering-landuse-construction-mapnik.png
Former Brickworks ... - geograph.org.uk - 56268.jpg
landuse	cemetery	node area	Place for burials. You can add religion=* (values listed in the place of worship page). Smaller places (e.g. with a church nearby) may use amenity=grave_yard instead.	
Landuse-cemetery.png
Jewish cemetery Worms.jpg
landuse	conservation	area	Protected areas (deprecated) Alternate tagging of same thing: boundary=protected_area, protected_area=*		
landuse	depot	area	An area used as a depot for e.g. vehicles (trains, buses or trams). Consider using rather standard landuse tags like landuse=railway, landuse=commercial, landuse=industrial, with subtag like industrial=depot.		
RET remise Beverwaard (2).JPG
landuse	garages	area	One level buildings with boxes commonly for cars, usually made of brick and metal. Usually this area belong to garage cooperative with own name, chairman, budget, rules, security, etc.	
Rendering-area-landuse garages-mapnik.png
Etagen-Garage.jpg
landuse	grass	node area	An area of mown and managed grass not otherwise covered by a more specific tag. Some view this as not a landuse, see the main page landuse=grass for discussion.	
Natural-Grassland.png
084 Green grass lawn background, green mowed grass free photo.jpg
landuse	greenfield	node area	Describes land scheduled for new development where there have been no buildings before. A greenfield is scheduled to turn into a construction site	
Rendering-area-landuse greenfield-mapnik.png
Greenfields - geograph.org.uk - 1202824.jpg


landuse	landfill	node area	Place where waste is dumped.	
Rendering-landuse-landfill-mapnik.png
Landfill.jpg
landuse	military	node area	For land areas owned/used by the military for whatever purpose	
Rendering-landuse-military-mapnik.png
REUNION 2007 04.jpg
landuse	port	area	coastal industrial area where commercial traffic is handled. Consider using landuse=industrial + industrial=port for this type of industrial area.		
Churchill Seaport 1996-08-12.jpg
landuse	quarry	node area	Surface mineral extraction	
Rendering-landuse-quarry-mapnik.png
Steinbruch.jpg
landuse	railway	area	Area for railway use	
Landuse-industrial.png
OahuRailway&LandCo-switchtrack-signal.JPG
landuse	recreation_ground	node area	An open green space for general recreation, which may include pitches, nets and so on, usually municipal but possibly also private to colleges or companies	
Landuse-recreation ground.png
Outdoor gym in Parque de Bateria, Torremolinos.JPG
landuse	religious	node area	An area used for religious purposes	
Landuse-religious ground.png
Cerkiew w Komańczy by Verid1st 09.JPG
landuse	village_green	node area	A village green is a distinctive area of grassy public land in a village centre. Not a generic tag for urban greenery. It is a typical English term – defined separately from 'common land' under the Commons Registration Act 1965 and the Commons Act 2006.	
Landuse-village green.png
GrettonVillageGreen.jpg
landuse	greenery	area	Used for any area covered with landscaping or decorative greenery, regardless of it being on a roundabout, along a street or in a park/garden, This tag has been used for vegetation that is hard to classify, either because its kind or because its diversity.		
Vg1.jpg
landuse	winter_sports	node area	An area dedicated to winter sports (e.g. skiing)		
First run (3373949916).jpg
landuse	user defined	node area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Leisure
This is used to tag leisure and sports facilities. See the page titled Leisure for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Rendering	Photo
leisure	adult_gaming_centre	nodearea	A venue with gambling machines, usually with a minimum age requirement.		
Slot machines in Venetian.jpg
leisure	amusement_arcade	nodearea	A venue with pay-to-play games.	
Amusement arcade-14.svg
Dave & Buster's video arcade in Columbus, OH - 17910.JPG
leisure	beach_resort	nodearea	A managed beach, including within the boundary any associated facilities. Entry may also require payment of a fee.	
Beach resort-14.svg
Beach resort.jpg
leisure	bandstand	nodearea	A bandstand is an open structure where musical bands can perform concerts.		
HornimanBandstandsmall.jpg
leisure	bird_hide	nodearea	A place that is used to observe wildlife, especially birds.	
Bird hide-14.svg
Belvide-gazebo.jpg
leisure	common	nodearea	Identify land over which the public has general rights of use for certain leisure activities.		
leisure	dance	nodearea	A dance venue or dance hall.		
Tango-ballroom-competition.jpg
leisure	disc_golf_course	nodearea	A place to play disc golf.		
Disc golfer and basket.jpg
leisure	dog_park	nodearea	A designated area, with or without a fenced boundary, where dog-owners are permitted to exercise their pets unrestrained.	
Dog park.svg
DogPark.jpg
leisure	escape_game	nodearea	A physical adventure game in which players solve a series of puzzles using clues, hints and strategy to complete the objectives at hand.		
Conundrum Escape Room.jpg
leisure	firepit	nodearea	A fire ring or fire pit, often at a campsite or picnic site.	
Firepit.svg
Camp site.jpg
leisure	fishing	nodearea	A public or private place for fishing.	
Fishing-14.svg
Angler.jpg
leisure	fitness_centre	nodearea	Fitness centre, health club or gym with exercise machines, fitness classes or both, for exercise.	
Fitness.svg
Gym 1-1-.jpg
leisure	fitness_station	nodearea	An outdoor facility where people can practise typical fitness exercises.	
Fitness.svg
Outdoor gym in Parque de Bateria, Torremolinos.JPG
leisure	garden	nodearea	A place where flowers and other plants are grown in a decorative and structured manner or for scientific purposes.	
Rendering-area-leisure-garden.png
SF Japanese Garden.JPG
leisure	hackerspace	nodearea	A place where people with common interests (science, technology, ...) meet.		
Protospace, a Hackerspace.jpg
leisure	horse_riding	nodearea	A facility where people practise horse riding, usually in their spare time, e.g. a riding centre. For a riding arena use leisure=pitch + sport=equestrian.		
Warendorf, Reitanlage Josephshof -- 2014 -- 8591 -- Ausschnitt.jpg
leisure	ice_rink	nodearea	A place where you can skate and play bandy or ice hockey.		
Pista hielo bakh.jpg
leisure	marina	nodearea	A facility for mooring leisure yachts and motor boats.	
Rendering-leisure marina.png
Benalmadena - Puerto Marina.jpg
leisure	miniature_golf	nodearea	A place or area where you can play miniature golf.	
Miniature golf.svg
BigApple-ccby-rw .jpg
leisure	nature_reserve	nodearea	A protected area of importance for wildlife, flora, fauna or features of geological or other special interest.	
National park.png
Black Opal Spring in Biscuit Basin.JPG
leisure	park	nodearea	A park, usually in an urban (municipal) setting, created for recreation and relaxation.	
Rendering-area-leisure-park.png
3015-Central Park-Sheep Meadow.JPG
leisure	picnic_table	nodearea	A table with benches for food and rest.	
Table-16.svg
Picnic table.jpg
leisure	pitch	nodearea	An area designed for practising a particular sport, normally designated with appropriate markings.	
Rendering-leisure-pitch.png
Yes NCTU tennis 2.JPG
leisure	playground	nodearea	A playground: an area designed for children to play.	
Playground-16.svg
Children playing on a modern playground.jpg
leisure	slipway	nodearea	A slipway: a ramp for launching a boat into water.	
Transport slipway.svg
Slipway.jpg
leisure	sports_centre	nodearea	A sports centre is a distinct facility where sports take place within an enclosed area.		
Western Lesiure Centre Cardiff.JPG
leisure	stadium	nodearea	A major sports facility with substantial tiered seating.		
Notre-dame-stadium.jpg
leisure	summer_camp	nodearea	A place for supervised camps for children or teenagers conducted during the summer months.		
Summer camp example wartenberg 2015 01.jpeg
leisure	swimming_area	nodearea	An area for swimming within a larger body of water (such as a river, lake or the sea) that is marked by a rope, buoys or similar.	
Swimming-16.svg
SymbolSwimming.svg
leisure	swimming_pool	nodearea	A swimming pool (water area only).	
Base layer water.png
Pool i.jpg
leisure	track	nodearea	A track for running, cycling and other non-motorised racing such as horses, greyhounds.		
Skyttis athletics tracks.jpg
leisure	water_park	nodearea	An amusement park with features like water slides, recreational pools (e.g. wave pools) or lazy rivers.	
Swimming-16.svg
Caribe01.jpg
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Man made
A tag for identifying man made (artificial) structures that are added to the landscape. See man_made=* for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
man_made	adit		A type of entrance to an underground mine which is horizontal or nearly horizontal.		
man_made	beacon	 	A structure for signalling on land and sea		
man_made	breakwater	 	A man-made structure designed to protect a shore or harbour from the sea and waves.		
man_made	bridge		The outline of a bridge, grouping together all features for that bridge.		
man_made	bunker_silo	 	An open-sided structure without a roof that can be used with vehicles to fill and empty them		
man_made	carpet_hanger	 	A construction to hang carpets for cleaning with the help of carpet beaters.		
man_made	chimney	 	A tall distinctive vertical conduit for venting hot gases or smoke, normally found near power stations or large factories.		
man_made	column	 	A column used to support a structure or for decoration.		
man_made	communications_tower	 	A huge tower for transmitting radio applications		
man_made	crane	 	A stationary, permanent crane.		
man_made	cross		Cross, especially one with little historical value		
man_made	cutline		A straight line cut in a forest.		
man_made	clearcut		An area where all trees have been uniformly cut down.		
man_made	dovecote	 	A place where doves are farmed or stored.		
man_made	dyke		An embankment built to restrict the flow of water or other liquids		
man_made	embankment		An artificial steep slope. Lower side to right (arrows side).		
man_made	flagpole		A long pole built to hold a flag		
man_made	gasometer	 	A large container in which natural gas or town gas is stored near atmospheric pressure at ambient temperatures		
man_made	goods_conveyor		A conveyor system for transporting materials		
man_made	groyne	 	A rigid structure built from a shoreline or riverbank that interrupts water flow and limits the movement of sediment.		
man_made	guard_stone		A guard stone: a stone built onto or into the corner of a building or wall to prevent carriages from damaging the structure, often found on either side of an entrance to a laneway, or alongside a wall to protect it.		
man_made	kiln	 	A thermally insulated chamber used for processes such as burning, hardening, drying, or smelting.		
man_made	lighthouse	 	Tower that emits light to serve as a navigational aid at sea or on inland waterway		
man_made	mast		A mast is a vertical structure built to hold, for example, antennas.		
man_made	mineshaft	 	A vertical tunnel into a mine where minerals are extracted.		
man_made	monitoring_station	 	A station that monitors something.		
man_made	obelisk	 	Tall, narrow, four-sided, tapered monument which usually ends in a pyramid-like shape at the top.		
man_made	observatory	 	Observatory: a location used for observing terrestrial or celestial events.		
man_made	offshore_platform	 	Offshore platform, oil platform or offshore drilling rig		
man_made	petroleum_well		A hole bored in the earth, designed to bring petroleum oil or gas to the surface		
man_made	pier	 	A pier is a raised walkway over water, supported by widely spread piles or pillars.		
man_made	pipeline		A major pipeline carrying gas, water, oil, etc.		
man_made	pump		A device in charge of moving or raising the level of liquids.		
man_made	pumping_station	 	Pumping station: a facility including pumps and equipment for pumping fluids from one place to another		
man_made	reservoir_covered	 	A covered reservoir is a large man-made tank for holding fresh water		
man_made	sewer_vent		Used to map sewer vent pipes.		
man_made	silo	 	A storage container for bulk material, often grains such as corn or wheat.		
man_made	snow_fence		A fence-like structure built to redirect drifting snow.		
man_made	snow_net	 	A netting fence built across steep slopes to reduce risk and severity of (snow) avalanches		
man_made	storage_tank	 	A container that holds liquids or compressed gases.		
man_made	street_cabinet	 	A cabinet located in the street and hosting technical equipment to operate facilities such as electricity or street lights.		
man_made	stupa	 	A Buddhist dome-shaped structure with a spire on top.		
man_made	surveillance		A surveillance camera or other type of surveillance equipment.		
man_made	survey_point		A triangulation pillar, geodetic vertex, or other piece of fixed equipment used by topographers.		
man_made	tailings_pond		A body of liquid or slurry used to store byproducts of mining operations.		
man_made	telescope	 	Telescope: an instrument that aids in the observation of remote objects by collecting light or radio waves		
man_made	tower	 	A tower is a free-standing structure which is higher than it is wide.		
man_made	video_wall	 	A digital screen, typically constructed out of smaller LED panels.		
man_made	wastewater_plant	 	A wastewater plant is a facility used to treat wastewater.		
man_made	watermill	 	A mill driven by water power.		
man_made	water_tower	 	Structure with a water tank at an altitude to increase pressure in water network		
man_made	water_well	 	A structural facility to access ground water, created by digging or drilling.		
man_made	water_tap		Publicly usable water tap		
man_made	water_works	 	A facility where water is treated to make it suitable for human consumption.		
man_made	wildlife_crossing	 	Structure that allow animals to cross human barriers safely.		
man_made	windmill	 	A traditional windmill, historically used to mill grain with wind power.		
man_made	works	 	A factory or industrial production plant		
man_made	yes		Use tag:anthropogenic=yes or key:man_made instead.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Military
This is used for facilities and on land used by the military. These may include the Navy, Army, Air Force and Marines. See the page titled Military for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
military	academy	 	A training establishment for military service members		
military	airfield	 	A place where military planes take off and land.		
military	base	 	A facility where military personnel and equipment are based.		
military	bunker	 	A building reinforced to withstand attack		
military	barracks	 	Buildings where military personnel live and sleep.		
military	checkpoint		Place where civilian visitors and vehicles will be checked by a military authority.		
military	danger_area	 	A danger area is a restricted area posing a threat to life or property.		
military	nuclear_explosion_site	 	Nuclear weapons test site		
military	obstacle_course	 	A military obstacle course: a series of challenging physical obstructions an individual or team must navigate usually while being timed		
military	office	 	Military offices, e.g. general staff office, military recruitment office etc		
military	range	 	Where military personnel practice with their weapons (firing, bombing, artillery, ...).		
military	school	 	A school for children run as part of a country's military		
military	training_area		A military training area/proving ground		
military	trench	 	A military trench is an excavation in the ground that is generally deeper than it is wide, dug into the ground as a barrier for military purposes (e.g. trench warfare).		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Natural
This is used to describe natural and physical land features. These also include features that have been modified by humans.

Vegetation
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
natural	fell	 	Habitat above tree line covered with grass, dwarf shrubs and mosses.		
natural	grassland		An area where the vegetation is dominated by grasses and other herbaceous (non-woody) plants.		
natural	heath		A dwarf-shrub habitat, characterised by open, low growing woody vegetation, often dominated by plants of the Ericaceae.		
natural	moor		Don't use, see wikipage		
natural	scrub	 	Uncultivated land covered with shrubs, bushes or stunted trees.		
natural	shrubbery		An area of woody shrubbery that is actively maintained or pruned by humans. A slightly wilder look is also possible.		
natural	tree		A single tree.		
natural	tree_row		A line of trees.		
natural	tundra		Treeless cold climate habitat with open, low growing sedges, grasses, mosses and lichens.		
natural	wood	 	Tree-covered area (a 'forest' or 'wood')		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Water related
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
natural	bay	  	Named area of water mostly surrounded by land but with level connection to the ocean or a lake.		
natural	beach	 	landform along a body of water which consists of sand, shingle or other loose material		
natural	blowhole	 	An opening to a sea cave which has grown landwards resulting in blasts of water from the opening due to the wave action.		
natural	cape		A piece of elevated land sticking out into the sea or large lake.		
natural	coastline		The line between sea and land indicating mean high water (springs): the water lies on the right side of the way.		
natural	crevasse	 	A large crack in a glacier		
natural	geyser		A spring characterized by intermittent discharge of water ejected turbulently and accompanied by steam		
natural	glacier	 	A permanent body of ice formed naturally from snow that is moving under its own weight.		
natural	hot_spring	 	A spring of geothermally heated groundwater		
natural	isthmus	 	A narrow strip of land, bordered by water on both sides and connecting two larger land masses		
natural	mud		Area covered with mud: water saturated fine grained soil without significant plant growth.		
natural	peninsula	 	A piece of land projecting into water from a larger land mass, nearly surrounded by water		
natural	reef	  	A feature (rock, sandbar, coral, etc) lying permanently beneath the surface of the water.		
natural	shingle		An accumulation of rounded rock fragments on a beach or riverbed.		
natural	shoal		An area of the water floor which nears the water surface and is exposed at low tide or when a river/lake is not full of water.		
natural	spring	 	A place where ground water flows naturally from the ground		
natural	strait	  	A narrow area of water surrounded by land on two sides and by water on two other sides.		
natural	water	 	Any inland body of water, from natural such as a lake or pond to artificial like a moat or canal.		
natural	wetland		A natural area subject to inundation or with waterlogged ground		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Geology related
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
natural	arch	  	A rock arch naturally formed by erosion, with an opening underneath.		
natural	arete		A thin, almost knife-like, ridge of rock which is typically formed when two glaciers erode parallel U-shaped valleys		
natural	bare_rock		An area with sparse or no vegetation, so that the bedrock becomes visible		
natural	blockfield		An area covered by boulder- or block-sized rocks.		
natural	cave_entrance	 	An entrance to a cave: a natural underground space large enough for a human to enter		
natural	cliff	 	A vertical or almost vertical natural drop in terrain, usually with a bare rock surface. The bottom of the cliff is on the right side of the way.		
natural	dune	  	A hill of sand formed by wind, covered with no or very little vegetation		
natural	earth_bank		Large erosion gully or steep earth bank.		
natural	fumarole	 	A fumarole is an opening in a planet's crust, which emits steam and gases		
natural	hill	 	A hill is a landform that is elevated above the surrounding terrain, but is smaller than a mountain.		
natural	peak		The top (summit) of a hill or mountain.		
natural	ridge		A mountain landform with a continuous elevated crest or linear hill		
natural	rock	 	A notable rock or group of rocks attached to the underlying bedrock		
natural	saddle		The lowest point along a ridge or between two mountain tops.		
natural	sand		An area covered by sand with no or very little vegetation.		
natural	scree		Unconsolidated angular stones formed by rockfall and weathering from adjacent rock faces.		
natural	sinkhole	 	A natural depression or hole in the surface topography.		
natural	stone	 	A single notable freestanding rock, which may differ from the composition of the terrain it lies in.		
natural	valley	 	A natural depression flanked by ridges or ranges of mountains or hills		
natural	volcano		An opening exposed on the earth's surface where volcanic material is emitted.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Office
An office is a place of business where administrative or professional work is carried out.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
office	accountant	 	An office for an accountant.	
office	advertising_agency	 	A service-based business dedicated to creating, planning, and handling advertising.	
office	airline	 	An office for an airline company.	
office	architect	 	An office for an architect or group of architects.	
office	association	 	An office of a non-profit organisation, society, e.g. student, sport, consumer, automobile, bike association, etc.	
office	chamber	 	Seat of a professional chamber, such as bar associations.	
office	charity	 	An office of a charitable organization	
office	company	 	An office of a private company.	
office	construction_company	 	An office of a building construction company.	
office	consulting	 	An office for a consulting firm, providing expert professional advice to other companies or organisations.	
office	courier	 	A courier delivery service, which is neither a post office nor a national post.	
office	coworking	 	An office where people can go to work (typically requires a fee); not limited to a single employer.	
office	diplomatic	 	An embassy, diplomatic mission, consulate or liaison office of a foreign government or parastatal entity in a host country.	
office	educational_institution	 	An office for an educational institution.	
office	employment_agency	 	An office for an employment service.	
office	energy_supplier	 	An office for an energy supplier.	
office	engineer	 	An office for an engineer or group of engineers.	
office	estate_agent	 	A place where you can rent or buy a house.	
office	event_management	 	An office offering support for event planning and management	
office	financial	 	An office of a company in the financial sector	
office	financial_advisor	 	A professional who offers financial planning and sells financial services to clients.	
office	forestry	 	A forestry office	
office	foundation	 	An office of a foundation	
office	geodesist	 	An office of scientists studying Earth shape.	
office	government	 	An office of a (supra)national, regional or local government agency or department	
office	graphic_design	 	An office of a graphic designer.	
office	guide	 	An office of tour guides, mountain guides, hiking guides, dive guides, etc.	
office	harbour_master	 	The Harbourmaster's office.	
office	insurance	 	An office at which you can take out insurance policies.	
office	it	 	An office for an IT company.	
office	lawyer	 	An office for a lawyer.	
office	logistics	 	An office for a company offering logistics.	
office	moving_company	 	An office which offers a relocation service.	
office	newspaper	 	An office of a newspaper	
office	ngo	 	An office for a non-profit, non-governmental organisation (NGO).	
office	notary	 	An office for a notary public (common law)	
office	politician	 	A politician's office.	
office	political_party	 	An office of a political party	
office	property_management	 	Office of a property rental company for residential apartments or commercial office space or any other property.	
office	publisher	 	An office of a publisher.	
office	quango	 	An office of a quasi-autonomous non-governmental organisation.	
office	religion	 	An office of a community of faith.	
office	research	 	An office for research and development	
office	security	 	An office for private security guards	
office	surveyor	 	An office of a person doing technical surveys, such as land surveys or risk and damage evaluations of properties and equipment.	
office	tax_advisor	 	An office for a financial expert specially trained in tax law	
office	telecommunication	 	An office for a telecommunication company.	
office	transport	 	An office of a freight forwarder or transport company.	
office	travel_agent	 	An office of a travel agent.	
office	tutoring	 	An office of tutor or tutoring centre.	
office	union	 	An office of a trade union, an association of workers forming a bargaining unit.	
office	university	 	An office providing services to university students or staff, or the office of a department / faculty in a university.	
office	visa	 	An office of an organisation or business which offers visa assistance.	
office	water_utility	 	The office for a water utility company or water board.	
office	yes	 	Generic tag for unspecified office type.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Place
See Generic:Map Features:place.
This is used mainly to give details about settlements. See the page titled Places for an introduction on its usage.

Administratively declared places
Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
place	country		A nation state or other high-level national political/administrative area.	
place	state	 	A large sub-national political/administrative area.	
place	region	  	Used both as a broad tag for geographic or historical areas with no clear boundary and for distinct administration areas (with specific boundaries) in some countries.	
place	province		A subdivision of a country similar to a state.	
place	district		A district – a type of administrative division that, in some countries, is managed by local government.	
place	county		A county - a geographical region of a country.	
place	subdistrict		A subdistrict - a subdivision of a district used for administrative or other purposes.	
place	municipality	 	A municipality - single urban administrative division having corporate status.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Populated settlements, urban
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
place	city	  	The largest urban settlement or settlements within the territory.		
place	borough	  	A part in a larger city grouped into administrative unit.		
place	suburb	  	A part of a town or city with a well-known name and often a distinct identity.		
place	quarter	  	A quarter is a named, geographically localised place within a suburb of a larger city or within a town, which is bigger than a neighbourhood.		
place	neighbourhood	  	A neighbourhood is a smaller named, geographically localised place within a suburb of a larger city or within a town or village		
place	city_block	 	A named city block, usually surrounded by streets.		
place	plot	  	A named plot is a tract or parcel of land owned or meant to be owned by some owner.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Populated settlements, urban and rural
Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
place	town	  	An important urban centre, between a village and a city in size.	
place	village	  	A smaller distinct settlement, smaller than a town with few facilities available with people traveling to nearby towns to access these.	
place	hamlet	 	A smaller rural community, typically with fewer than 100-200 inhabitants, and little infrastructure.	
place	isolated_dwelling	  	The smallest kind of settlement (1-2 households).	
place	farm	 	An individually named farm.	
place	allotments	 	A separate settlement, which is located outside an officially inhabited locality and has its own addressing	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Other places
Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
place	continent		One of the seven continents: Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Europe, North America, Oceania, South America.	
place	archipelago		A named group or chain of closely related islands and islets.	
place	island	 	Any piece of land that is completely surrounded by water and isolated from other significant landmasses.	
place	islet	 	A very small island.	
place	square	 	A town or village square: a (typically) paved open space, generally of architectural significance, which is surrounded by buildings in a built-up area such as a city, town or village.	
place	locality	  	A named place that has no population.	
place	polder	 	A land area that forms an artificial hydrological entity enclosed by embankments and usually is under sea level.	
place	sea	 	A large body of salt water part of, or connected to, an ocean.	
place	ocean		The world's five main major oceanic divisions.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Additional attributes
Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
population		  	Indicates a rough number of citizens in a given place.	
is_in		   	The is_in tag is used to index where a place or feature is.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Power
These are used to map electrical power generation and distributions systems. See Power for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
power	cable		An insulated cable carrying electrical power, such as transmission or distribution cables located underground and undersea cables		
power	catenary_mast		A pole supporting the overhead wires used to supply electricity to vehicles equipped with a pantograph such as trams and trains.		
power	compensator	 	A static power device used to ensure power quality and electrical network resilience.		
power	connection		A free-standing electrical connection between two or more overhead wires.		
power	converter	 	A device to convert power between alternating and direct current electrical power: often, but not only, over high voltage networks		
power	generator	  	A device which converts one form of energy to another, for example, an electrical generator.		
power	heliostat		A mirror of a heliostat device		
power	insulator	 	An electrical insulator which connects a power line to a support structure and prevents grounding.		
power	inverter	 	A device to convert power from direct current to alternating current.		
power	line		High-voltage power lines used for power transmission, usually supported by towers or pylons		
line	busbar		Identifies a power line as a busbar, the central connection in a substation		
line	bay		A power line within a substation which connects a circuit to a busbar.		
power	minor_line		Minor power lines forming the distribution grid, usually carried by poles.		
power	plant	 	An industrial facility where power (electricity, useful heat, biogas) is produced by individual power generator units.		
power	pole		A single pole supporting power lines, often a wood, steel, or concrete mast designed to carry minor power lines.		
power	portal	 	A supporting structure for power lines, composed of vertical legs with cables between them attached to a horizontal crossarm.		
power	substation	 	A facility which controls the flow of electricity in a power network with transformers, switchgear or compensators.		
power	switch		A device which allows electrical network operators to power up & down lines and transformers in substations or along the power grid.		
power	switchgear		A switchgear, which comprises one or more busbar assemblies and a number of bays each connecting a circuit to the busbar assembly.		
power	terminal		A point of connection where an overhead power line ends on a building or wall; for example, when connecting it to an indoor substation.		
power	tower		A tower or pylon carrying high voltage electricity cables. Often constructed from steel latticework but tubular or solid pylons are also used.		
power	transformer		A device for stepping up or down electric voltage. Large power transformers are typically located inside substations		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Public transport
This is used for features related to public transport. For example: railway stations, bus stops and services. See the page titled Public transport for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
public_transport	stop_position		The position on the street or rails where a public transport vehicle stops.	
public_transport	platform	  	The place where passengers are waiting for the public transport vehicles.	
public_transport	station	 	A station is an area designed to access public transport.	
public_transport	stop_area		A relation that contains all elements of a train, subway, monorail, tram, bus, trolleybus, aerialway, or ferry stop.	
public_transport	stop_area_group			
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Railway
Main article: Railways
This key includes all kinds of railways ranging from heavily used mainline railways to an abandoned rail line.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Rendering carto	Photo
Tracks
railway	abandoned	way	The course of a former railway which has been abandoned and the track removed. The course is still recognized through embankments, cuttings, tree rows, bridges, tunnels, remaining track ties, building shapes and rolling or straight ways. For demolished rails that are no longer identifiable, e.g. that have been built over, some use the highly questionable railway=razed.		
Vysocany concrete rail ties former Northwestern railway.jpg
railway	construction	way	Railway under construction.	
Rendering-railway construction-125.png
Verlegen FF Rheda.jpg
railway	proposed	way	Railway being proposed but haven't started construction. Please see the proposed page regarding verifiability on the ground of this value.		
railway	disused	way	A section of railway which is no longer used but where the track and infrastructure remains in place. The track is likely overgrown with endemic vegetation, but could be brought back into useful service with only minor effort.	
Rendering-railway disused-125.png
Disused railtrack 101 5351.jpg
railway	funicular	way	Cable driven inclined railways on a steep slope, with a pair of cars connected by one cable	
Rendering-railway light rail funicular narrow gauge-125.png
Vilnius funicular.jpg
railway	light_rail	way	A higher-standard tram system, normally in its own right-of-way. Often it connects towns and thus reaches a considerable length (tens of kilometres).	
Rendering-railway light rail funicular narrow gauge-125.png
Pittsburgh LRT 4305 47L Gateway to Library April 2008.jpg
railway	miniature	way	Miniature railways are narrower than narrow gauge and carry passengers, frequently at an exact scale of "standard-sized" rail (for example "1/4 scale"). They can often be found in parks.	
Rendering-railway miniature.png
Dampfbahnfreunde sommerhofen 09180016.jpg
railway	monorail	way	A railway with only a single rail. A monorail can run above the rail like in Las Vegas and Disneyland or can suspend below the rail like the Wuppertal Schwebebahn (Germany).	
Rendering-railway monorail.png
Monorail in Kuala Lumpur
railway	narrow_gauge	way	Narrow-gauge passenger or freight train tracks. Narrow gauge railways can have mainline railway service like the Rhaetian Railway in Switzerland or can be a small light industrial railway. Use gauge=* to specify the actual width of rails in mm.	
Rendering-railway light rail funicular narrow gauge-125.png
Narrow-gauge railway.JPG
railway	preserved	way	This is the old tag for historic trains. Use railway:preserved=yes for historical railway instead.	
Rendering-railway preserved.png
Sarganska osmica 1.jpg
railway	rail	way	Full sized passenger or freight train tracks in the standard gauge for the country or state.	
Rendering-railway rail.png
LGV Est PK217.jpg
railway	subway	way	A city passenger rail service running mostly grade separated (see Wikipedia:rapid transit). Often a significant portion of the line or its system/network is underground.	
Rendering-railway subway.png
Madrid - Estación Marqués de Vadillo - 20060910.jpg
railway	tram	way	One or two carriage rail vehicle tracks, usually sharing motor road, sometimes called "street running" (Other languages).	
Rendering-railway tram.png
Praha, Hloubětín, Lehovec, tram KT8D5.JPG
Additional track features or attributes
bridge	yes	way	If the railway goes over a street, waterway or other railway on an elevated structure.	
Railway bridge mapnick render.jpg
Railway bridge.jpg
cutting	yes	way	A section where the railway is significantly lower than ground level, but not underground.		
Railway Cutting - geograph.org.uk - 159988.jpg
electrified	contact_line
rail
yes
no	way	contact_line: a power line over the train head
rail: a third rail near the track supplying the train with power
yes: electrified track, but no details available
no: track with no power supply.		
Caténaire 1,5 kV 01.jpg
embankment	yes	way	A section where the railway is raised significantly higher than ground level.		
Railway Embankment South of Beattock - geograph.org.uk - 398770.jpg
embedded_rails	yes / <type of railway>	way	Specifies that a highway on which non-railway traffic is also allowed has railway tracks embedded in it but the rails are mapped as separate ways.		
Ruusulankatu tram rails (at lat 60.18206, lon 24.92450) heading NW.jpg
frequency	<number> [Hz]	way	The frequency with which a line is electrified. Use 0 for DC. Also see the voltage tag.		
Wave frequency.gif
passenger_lines	<number>	way	Used to describe number of tracks of the railway line a certain track segment belongs to.		
railway:track_ref	<number>	way	Track number		
Gleis 101.jpg
service	crossover	way	Relatively short lengths of track which switch traffic from one parallel line to another		
Crossover.png
service	siding	way	Relatively short lengths of track, running parallel to (and connected to) a main route	
Rendering-railway rail service.png
Siding.png
service	spur	way	Relatively short lengths of track, built to give one company or entity access to a main or branch line.	
Rendering-railway rail service.png
Spur.png
service	yard	way	Tracks within railway company operated marshalling or maintenance yards.	
Rendering-railway rail service.png
Service yard.png
tunnel	yes	way	If the railway goes below ground. Most subways have this tag.		
Haywards Heath tunnel.jpg
tracks	<number>	way	Number of parallel tracks in close proximity when mapped as one single way representing all tracks. If not given means unknown and defaults to 1. In many parts of the world the tracks are being drawn out separately so that there is more detail, in which case this tag isn't used.		
Spoorlijn 51 R01.jpg
usage	main
branch
industrial
military
tourism
scientific
test	way	main line: heavy traffic
branch line: connecting places with a mainline
industrial: servicing large plants (iron, chemical etc.), surface mining, …
military: servicing military area
tourism: most mountain rails (rack-rails, funicular) and preserved railways
scientific: rail transport at spaceports, large array telescopes, etc.
test: track for testing new wheels, rails, tracks and rail technologies.		
voltage	<number>	way	The voltage with which a line is electrified. Also see the frequency tag.		
Symbole voltmetre.png
Stations and stops
railway	halt	node	A small station without switches	
Rendering-railway-tram stop-mapnik.png.png
Railway halt.jpg
public_transport	stop_position	node	The position on the railway track where the train (its centre) stops at a platform. This is useful for routing on long platforms where also short trains stop and on long platforms where multiple trains stop behind each other. See also public_transport=stop_area.		
Průmyslová str3, Prague Štěrboholy.jpg
public_transport	platform	node way area	This is parallel to the rail line for showing where the actual platforms are. It is also to know where you can change platform and enter the station, so use footpaths to connect them. This is really useful for routing too. Use only if the platform is served by public transport.		
Relax ... take it easy (7757527444).jpg
railway	platform	way area	This is parallel to the rail line for showing where the actual platforms are. It is also to know where you can change platform and enter the station, so use footpaths to connect them. This is really useful for routing too. Use in addition to public_transport=platform.		
Relax ... take it easy (7757527444).jpg
public_transport	station	node area	Railway passenger-only station.		
Paddington Station.jpg
railway	station	node area	Railway passenger and/or cargo station. Use in addition to public_transport=station.	
Rendering-railway-tram stop-mapnik.png.png
Paddington Station.jpg
railway	stop	node	Marks the position where trains stop at a station. It should be added as a node on a railway=rail way.		
2017 at Bath Spa - fixing new stop signs.JPG
railway	subway_entrance	node	The entrance to a subway station, usually going from surface to underground.	
Subway-entrance-12.svg
Madrid-Metro-Tribunal-Entrada.jpg
railway	tram_stop	node	A tram stop is a place where a passenger can embark / disembark a tram.	
Rendering-railway-tram stop-mapnik.png.png
Dscf1400-600.jpg
Infrastructure
landuse	railway	area	Ground used around railways and railwaystations.	Landuse-industrial.png	
Illustration of Rail.jpg
railway	buffer_stop	node	Stops the train at the end of a track. See buffer stop.		
Stootblok (staal).jpg
railway	crossing	node	A point where pedestrians may cross.	
Level crossing2.svg
Dscf1407-600.jpg
railway	derail	node	A device used to prevent fouling of a rail track by unauthorized movements of trains or unattended rolling stock. See Derail (railroad).		
US derail detail.JPG
railway	level_crossing	node	A point where rails and roads cross.	
Level crossing2.svg
Level crossing - Chertsey - England - 270404.jpg
railway	railway_crossing	node	Crossing rails with no interconnection.		
Railroad crossing at grade also known as a diamond.jpg
railway	roundhouse	area	A semicircular building with many stalls for servicing engines.		
Roundhouse Park August 2017 01.jpg
railway	signal	node	Any kind of railway signal.		
Zwischensignal FFM-Hoechst Schnee.jpg
railway	switch	node	Full connections between railways (aka 'points').		
Railway switch.JPG
railway	tram_level_crossing	node	A point where trams and roads cross.		
RU road sign 1.5.svg
railway	traverser	node area	These are used for changing trains between railways. Also known as transfer table.		
Schiebebuehne 01.jpg
railway	turntable	node area	These are used for changing the direction that part of a train is pointing in.	node: —
area: Rendering-area-railway turntable-mapnik.png

Turntable of Railroad 001.jpg
railway	ventilation_shaft	node way	A structure that allows ventilation in underground tunnels		
Moscow, Dmitriya Donskogo Boulevard, subway ventilation ducts (21984596650).jpg
railway	wash	node area	A railroad carriage/car wash		
AKN Waschanlage - panoramio.jpg
railway	water_crane	node	A structure to deliver water to steam locomotives		
Wasserkran Bf Stützerbach.JPG
railway	user defined	node way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Route
Main article: relation:route
This is used to describe routes of all different kinds.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Rendering	Photo
route	bicycle	relation	Cycle routes or bicycles route are named, numbered or otherwise signed. May go along roads, trails or dedicated cycle paths		
Ystadstartingpointcykelsparetostkusten06040011.png
route	bus	relation	The route a public bus service takes. See Buses.		
EDS-FullLED-Mobitec.JPG
route	canoe	relation	Signed route for canoeing through a waterway.		
Canoe route lkn.png
route	detour	relation	Route for fixed detour routes. Examples are Bedarfsumleitung in Germany and uitwijkroute in the Netherlands		Zeichen 463 - Bedarfsumleitung (rechts), StVO 1970.svg
route	ferry	way relation	The route a ferry takes from terminal to terminal Please make sure to add at least one node per tile (zoom level 12), better at least one every few km, so offline editors catch it with bbox requests.	
Route ferry.png
Ferry.Viking.line.mariella.800px.jpg
route	foot	relation	Walking Route - is used for routes which are walkable without any limitations regarding fitness, equipment or weather conditions.		
State Foot2.svg
route	hiking	relation	Hiking explains how to tag hiking routes.		
Hærvejen vandretureskilt.jpg
route	horse	relation	Riding routes		
Hawick Circular Riding Route - geograph.org.uk - 592357.jpg
route	inline_skates	relation	Inline has more information on the subject.		
Signalisation Skatingroute.svg
route	light_rail	relation	Route of a light rail line.		
S-Bahn Berlin Baureihe 481.jpg
route	mtb	relation	Mountain biking explains how to tag mtb routes.		
Mountain bikers this way^ - geograph.org.uk - 744534.jpg
route	piste	way relation	Route of a piste (e.g., snowshoe or XC-Ski trails) in a winter sport area.		
Snowshoe trail.jpg
route	railway	relation	A sequence of railway ways, often named (e.g., Channel Tunnel). See Railways.		
08 tory railtrack ubt.jpeg
route	road	relation	Can be used to map various road routes/long roads.		
2014-05-16 15 58 16 Sign for Interstate 95 northbound on Interstate 95 in Ewing, New Jersey.JPG
route	running	relation	For running (jogging) routes.		
Laufarena.at2.jpg
route	ski	relation	For ski tracks (e.g., XC-Ski Trails User:Langläufer/Loipemap).		
Langlauf Loipe.jpg
route	subway	relation	Route of a metro service		
Ubahnlogo.svg
route	train	relation	Train services (e.g., London-Paris Eurostar) See Railways.		
Transports Publics du Chablais - Zuglaufschild - 01.jpg
route	tracks	relation	Railroad track as rail infrastructure.		
08 tory railtrack ubt.jpeg
route	tram	relation	See Trams for more information on tagging tram services.		
Cobra3058.JPG
route	trolleybus	relation	The route of a trolleybus service.		
Trådbuss Landskrona.JPG
route	User defined	relation	All commonly used values according to Taginfo.		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Shop
The shop tag is used as a place of business that has stocked goods for sale or sells services. See the page titled Shop for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Comment	Rendering on default layer (osm-carto)	Photo
Food, beverages
shop	alcohol	Shop selling alcohol to take away	
Alcohol-16.svg
Liquor store in Breckenridge Colorado.jpg
shop	bakery	Shop focused on selling bread	
Bakery-16.svg
Bread in Boudin.jpg
shop	beverages	Shop focused on selling alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. See also shop=alcohol.	
Beverages-14.svg
Coca Cola Kisten.jpg
shop	brewing_supplies	Shop focused on selling supplies for home brewing of beer, wine and spirits (where permitted).	
Shop-other-16.svg
Home-brewing set with 5-gallon containers.jpg
shop	butcher	Shop focused on selling meat	
Butcher.svg
Butcher's shop Hong kong.jpg
shop	cheese	Shop focused on selling cheese.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Cheese shop P1010071.JPG
shop	chocolate	Shop focused on selling chocolate.	
Confectionery-14.svg
Chocolate shop.jpg
shop	coffee	Shop focused on selling coffee.	
Coffee-14.svg
Ahrre's Coffee Roastery in Summit NJ interior view.jpg
shop	confectionery	Shop focused on selling sweets or candy	
Confectionery-14.svg
Sweet Shop, Chester.JPG
shop	convenience	A small local shop carrying a small subset of the items you would find in a supermarket	
Convenience-14.svg
Food and wine shop.jpg
shop	dairy	Shop focused on selling dairy products.	
Dairy.svg
Milk Aisle.jpg
shop	deli	Shop focused on selling delicatessen (fine foods, gourmet foods), possibly also fine wine. Not to be confused with the US delis.	
Deli-14.svg
Rome Italian deli.jpg
shop	farm	Shop or roadside stand focused on selling freshly harvested farm produce	
Greengrocer-14.svg
Chatsworth farm shop - geograph.org.uk - 24050.jpg
shop	food	Shop focused on selling food, more specific value should be used if possible.
shop=food + food=prepared_meals was also proposed/used for type of shop selling prepared meals, not ready for eating immediately (and requiring for example heating/boiling or other simple preparation).

Shop-other-16.svg
Shop with prepared meals.jpg
shop	frozen_food	Shop focused on selling frozen food.	
Shop-other-16.svg
FrozenFoodSupermarket.jpg
shop	greengrocer	Shop focused on selling vegetables and fruits.	
Greengrocer-14.svg
Greenrocer's Interior.jpg
shop	health_food	A health food shop; selling wholefoods, vitamins, nutrition supplements and meat and dairy alternatives.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Holland & Barrett, King Street, Hammersmith.jpg
shop	ice_cream	Shop selling ice cream. See also amenity=ice_cream.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Ice Cream Parlour - geograph.org.uk - 1773794.jpg
shop	nuts	Shop selling dried nuts/fruits, edible seeds, etc. Not to be confused with shop=spices.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Nuts and spices at Mercat de Boqueria.jpg
shop	pasta	Shop focused on selling (fresh) pasta, ravioli, etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Ravioli 2.jpg
shop	pastry	Shop focused on selling baked sweets like cakes, biscuits, strudel and pies.	
Confectionery-14.svg
Pasticceria displaying cannoli siciliani.jpg
shop	seafood	Shop focused on selling fish/seafood.	
Seafood-14.svg
Seafood chijin.jpg
shop	spices	Shop focused on selling spices.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Old city, best spice shop (498280882).jpg
shop	tea	Shop focused on selling tea.	
Tea-14.svg
Tea shop by matsuyuki in Nishiki Ichiba, Kyoto.jpg
shop	tortilla	Shop focused on selling tortillas.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Tortillería Ruiz,México D.F.jpg
shop	water	Shop focused on selling drinking water.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Water bottles in Dia.jpg
shop	wine	Shop selling wine.	
Alcohol-16.svg
Wine Shop.JPG
General store, department store, mall
shop	department_store	A single large store – often multiple storeys high – selling a large variety of goods (see also shop=mall)	
Department store-16.svg
Takeshimaya Times Square in the evening.jpg
shop	general	A store that carries a general line of merchandise. (see also shop=convenience if it sells food).	
Shop-other-16.svg
Feinkost Weber Hernals 1994.jpg
shop	kiosk	A small shop on the pavement that sells magazines, tobacco, newspapers, sweets and stamps.	
Newsagent-14.svg
Kiosk germany.jpg
shop	mall	A shopping mall – multiple stores under one roof (also known as a shopping centre)	
Shop-other-16.svg
Dalian large Shopping Mall 2005.jpg
shop	supermarket	Supermarket – a large store with groceries and other items	
Supermarket-14.svg
Supermarket check out.JPG
shop	wholesale	Wholesale/warehouse club or cash and carry – a store that sells items in bulk to retailers. The branch of industry can be defined with wholesale=*.	
Trade-14.svg
Birmingham Wholesale Markets.jpg
Clothing, shoes, accessories
shop	baby_goods	Shop focused on selling objects for babies (clothes, prams, cots, toys).	
Shop-other-16.svg
Mothercare.jpg
shop	bag	Shop focused on selling bags.	
Bag-14.svg
Bags shop.jpg
shop	boutique	A small shopping outlet, especially one that specializes in elite and fashionable items	
Shop-other-16.svg
Inside Sttilo.jpg
shop	clothes	Shop focused on selling clothes and/or underwear (other related value in use is fashion)	
Clothes-16.svg
Hasseen2.jpg
shop	fabric	Shop focused on selling fabric and other materials for the purpose of making clothes and other products, eg dress making.	
Fabric-14.svg
Shop fabric.JPG
shop	fashion	Shop focused on selling fashion. This is deprecated, please use shop=clothes.	
Clothes-16.svg
Shop fashion berlin.jpg
shop	fashion_accessories	Shop focused on selling fashion accessories.	
Shop-other-16.svg
FashionAccessories.jpg
shop	jewelry	Jewellers shops.	
Jewellery-16.svg
Bijouterie.jpg
shop	leather	Shop focused on selling products made out of leather.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Lewis Leathers shop.jpg
shop	sewing	A shop that sells sewing supplies (fabric, thread, yarn, knitting needles, sewing machines, etc.)	
Shop-other-16.svg
W. Wächtershäuser - II.jpg
shop	shoes	Shop focused on selling shoes.	
Shoes-16.svg
Calzados La Americana.JPG
shop	shoe_repair	Shop focused on repairing shoes.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Swanson Shoe Repair.jpg
shop	tailor	A place where clothing is made, repaired, or altered professionally, especially suits and men's clothing	
Shop-other-16.svg
Tailor.jpg
shop	watches	Shop focused on selling watches.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Paris Forum des Halles 2012 09.jpg
shop	wool	Shop selling wool for making of clothes or other products.	
Shop-other-16.svg
So called baby merino in a store.jpg
Discount store, charity
shop	charity	A charity shop is a shop operated by a charity, for the purposes of fundraising.	
Charity-14.svg
Cancer Research, Armagh, November 2009.JPG
shop	second_hand	A shop buying and selling used clothes and other things. See also shop=pawnbroker	
Second hand-14.svg
HK Sheung Wan 2nd hand market Tung Street 上環東街.JPG
shop	variety_store	A variety store retailer is a retail store that sells inexpensive items, sometimes with a single price point for all items in the store.	
Variety store-14.svg
100-Emon.jpg
Health and beauty
shop	beauty	A non-hairdresser beauty shop, spa, nail salon, etc.. See also shop=hairdresser.	
Beauty-14.svg
Hair and Beauty, Strabane, January 2010.JPG
shop	chemist	Shop focused on selling articles of personal hygiene, cosmetics, and household cleaning products (for a shop that potentially dispenses prescription drugs, cf. pharmacy. U.S. drug store, see amenity=pharmacy)	
Chemist-14.svg
Kelly Chemist, Omagh - geograph.org.uk - 103193.jpg
shop	cosmetics	Shop focused on selling cosmetics	
Perfumery-14.svg
Cosmetics at Central Ladprao.JPG
shop	erotic	Shop focused on selling erotic toys, -clothes or other erotic stuff.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Sex shops (Paris)-01.jpg
shop	hairdresser	Here you can get your hair cut, coloured, … See also shop=beauty	
Hairdresser-16.svg
Belfast (187), October 2009.JPG
shop	hairdresser_supply	A shop, where you can buy hairdressing supplies.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Zeeb GmbH Friseurbedarf Mannheim S1.jpg
shop	hearing_aids	Shop focused on selling hearing aids devices	
Hearing-aids.svg
Shop audiologist.jpg
shop	herbalist	Shop focused on selling herbs, often for medical purposes. (See also: healthcare:speciality=herbalism and healthcare=alternative).	
Shop-other-16.svg
Hong Kong Museum of Medical Sciences, The Herbalist Shop.jpg
shop	massage	A massage shop	
Massage-14.svg
Thaimassage.jpg
shop	medical_supply	Shop focused on selling medical supplies.	
Medical supply.svg
Jt medical supply.jpg
shop	nutrition_supplements	Shops that sells one or more nutritional supplements (of vitamins, minerals and/or herbs)	
Shop-other-16.svg
GNC-store.jpg
shop	optician	Shop focused on selling eyeglasses, contact lenses (may also check your eyes).	
Optician-16.svg
US Navy 021029-N-3228G-001 Adjusting a customer's eyeglasses.jpg
shop	perfumery	Shop focused on selling perfumery	
Perfumery-14.svg
301 perfumery and drugstore in Cala Millor.jpg
shop	tattoo	A tattoo parlour.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Tattoo-by-grisha-maslov.jpg
Do-it-yourself, household, building materials, gardening
shop	agrarian	Shop focused on selling agrarian products, like seeds, agricultural machinery, animal feed, etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Shop Buena in Szamotuły.jpg
shop	appliance	Shop focused on selling large electrical items (aka white goods) washing machines, fridges, cookers, ovens, fans, etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Small appliance shop in North London.jpg
shop	bathroom_furnishing	Shop focused on selling bathroom furniture and accessories	
Shop-other-16.svg
Villa Tugendhat - Badezimmer.JPG
shop	country_store	Shop focused on selling rural supplies – a range of goods specifically aimed at country dwellers	
Shop-other-16.svg
Countrywide Store Melton Mowbray.jpg
shop	doityourself	Shop focused on selling tools and supplies to do-it-yourself householders, gardening, …	
Doityourself-16.svg
Inside BandQ - geograph.org.uk - 649798.jpg
shop	electrical	Shop focused on selling electrical supplies and devices	
Shop-other-16.svg
Old electrical shop, Paris March 2015.jpg
shop	energy	Shop focused on selling energy	
Shop-other-16.svg
Carrefour Market de Saint-Rémy-lès-Chevreuse le 1er avril 2013 - 08.jpg
shop	fireplace	Shop focused on selling electric fireplaces, stoves or masonry heaters and required fuels	
Shop-other-16.svg
Kaminofen in Betrieb IMG 6067.jpg
shop	florist	Shop focused on selling bouquets of flowers (see shop=garden_centre for potted flowers).	
Florist-16.svg
Butler's Wharf Flower Shop.jpg
shop	garden_centre	Shop focused on selling potted flowers, maybe even trees (see also shop=florist for flower bouquets).	
Garden centre-14.svg
Almondsbury.garden.centre.arp.jpg
shop	garden_furniture	Shop focused on selling garden furniture (sheds, outdoor tables, gates, fences, ...). See shop=garden_centre if also plants are sold.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Ahşap salıncak ve bahçe mobilyası.jpg
shop	gas	Shop focused on selling technical gas, such as argon, oxygen, acetylene, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, etc. in pressurized containers	
Shop-other-16.svg
2008-07-24 Bundle of compressed gas bottles.jpg
shop	glaziery	Shop focused on selling and installing glazing for windows and doors.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Double glazed Units.JPG
shop	groundskeeping	Shop focused on selling outdoor groundskeeping equipment (lawnmowers, chainsaws, small tractors, ...	
Shop-other-16.svg
Groundskeeping Store.jpg
shop	hardware	Shop focused on selling building supplies including screws, bolts & paints, … See also shop=doityourself	
Doityourself-16.svg
Tweedy and Popp 03.jpg
shop	houseware	Shop focused on selling crockery, cutlery, kitchenware, small household appliances.	
Houseware-14.svg
Houseware.jpg
shop	locksmith	Shop focused on selling keys, see also craft=locksmith and craft=key_cutter	
Shop-other-16.svg
Locksmiths.jpg
shop	paint	Shop focused on selling paints.	
Paint-14.svg
Artists paints.jpg
shop	pottery	Shop focused on selling earthenware, stoneware and porcelain and other ceramic ware.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Ceramics shop in Bát Tràng, Hanoi (1 March 2018) 74.jpg
shop	security	Shop focused on selling security items like burglar alarms, vaults, locking systems, video surveillance cameras, firefighting equipment, alarm systems, warning systems, etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
shop	tool_hire	Shop hiring out tools	
Shop-other-16.svg
HSS Hire Shop, Newport - geograph.org.uk - 4772780.jpg
shop	trade	A place of business that sells to a particular trade or trades, but normally also retails to normal consumers. See also shop=doityourself	
Trade-14.svg
Timber yard of Travis Perkins builders merchants - geograph.org.uk - 1025761.jpg
Furniture and interior
shop	antiques	Shop focused on selling antiques.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Antique shop - stock photo.jpg
shop	bed	Shop focused on selling beds, mattresses and other bedding products.	
Bed-14.svg
Bed Shop, Omagh - geograph.org.uk - 129722.jpg
shop	candles	Shop focused on selling candles and candle accessories (holders, etc)	
Shop-other-16.svg
Candle shop, Liberty of London (8370788712).jpg
shop	carpet	Shop focused on selling carpets	
Carpet-14.svg
A carpet seller in Jaipur.jpg
shop	curtain	Shop focused on selling curtains or drapes (see also shop=fabric)	
Shop-other-16.svg
Commerciante di tessuti.jpg
shop	doors	Shop focused on selling doors	
Shop-other-16.svg
London Door Company, Belmont, Sutton, Surrey, Greater London.jpg
shop	flooring	Shop focused on selling floorings	
Shop-other-16.svg
Fake wood flooring.jpg
shop	furniture	Shop focused on selling furniture, might range from small decorational items to a whole flat interior	
Furniture-16.svg
Small furniture shop.jpg
shop	household_linen	Shop focused on selling household linen.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Shop with table-cloths and bedding textiles at ulica Starowiejska, Gdynia 2.jpg
shop	interior_decoration	Shop focused on selling interior decorations.	
Interior decoration-14.svg
LA Showroom1 dakota jackson.jpg
shop	kitchen	A shop where you can plan and buy your kitchen. (Sometimes called "kitchen studio" and the like, but plain kitchen is the most frequently used tag so far.)	
Shop-other-16.svg
Kitchen shop in "The Boulevard" - geograph.org.uk - 1368775.jpg
shop	lighting	A shop selling lighting fixtures and lamps.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Lamp Shop in Bigastro.jpg
shop	tiles	Shop focused on selling tiles.	
Shop-other-16.svg
2.2 Jura Gelb geschliffen.JPG
shop	window_blind	Shop focused on selling window blinds.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Some window blinds.JPG
Electronics
shop	computer	Shop focused on selling computers, peripherals, software, …	
Computer-14.svg
Computer shop, Crossens.JPG
shop	electronics	Shop focused on selling consumer electronics (TV, radio, …). Larger ones may also sell computers, fridges, …	
Electronics-16.svg
Currys Digital.jpg
shop	hifi	Shop focused on selling High Fidelity or High End environment to listen music or watch films at home	
Hifi-14.svg
JB Hi-Fi Wagga Wagga.jpg
shop	mobile_phone	Shop focused on selling mobile phones and accessories	
Mobile-phone-16.svg
3G Mobile Phones fot China Mobile.jpg
shop	printer_ink	A shop that sells or refills printer ink cartridges.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Epson ink cartridges.JPG
shop	radiotechnics	Shop focused on selling electronic components, electrical products, radio measuring devices, supplies for radio and electronics.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Tokyo Akihabara electronic parts shop.jpg
shop	telecommunication	Shop selling internet, television or similar services, and related hardware.	
Shop-other-16.svg
T-Mobile US Retail Store in Waterbury, CT.jpg
shop	vacuum_cleaner	Shop focused on selling vacuum cleaners and associated products.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Panasonic MCE8013 vacuum cleaner close.jpg
Outdoors and sport, vehicles
shop	atv	Shop focused on selling atvs (quads), atv equipment and may rent or repair them	
Shop-other-16.svg
Honda FourTrax Rancher.jpg
shop	bicycle	Shop focused on selling bicycles, bicycle equipment and may rent or repair them	
Bicycle-16.svg
Fahrradverkaufsraum.jpg
shop	boat	Shop focused on selling boats, boat equipment and may rent or repair them	
Shop-other-16.svg
2018-10-14 Yacht Grot shopfront.jpg
shop	car	Car store – a place primarily to buy cars or to additionally get your car repaired	
Purple-car.svg
Preowned.JPG
shop	car_parts	Shop focused on selling auto parts, auto accessories, motor oil, car chemicals, etc.	
Car parts-14.svg
Auto Parts Store.jpg
shop	car_repair	Shop focused on repairing cars.	
Car repair-14.svg
Colourful Shops Places In Onehunga II.jpg
shop	caravan	A shop for caravans, motorhomes & similar recreational vehicles.	
Shop-other-16.svg
AskjemsCampingCenter.jpg
shop	[[ Too many Data Items entities accessed. | fishing ]]	Shop focused on selling fishing equipment.	
Shop-other-16.svg
M.A. Wickham, East Grinstead (15538910361).jpg
shop	fuel	Shop selling fuels (motor fuel, wood, coal, gas) that can't be considered a amenity=fuel (fuel station). Use fuel:*=yes/no to indicate which fuels are available.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Barreled fuel shop.jpg
shop	golf	Shop focused on selling golf equipment.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Pro shop - East Potomac Golf Course - East Potomac Park - 2013-08-25.jpg
shop	hunting	Shop focused on selling gun and hunting equipment.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Artegon Marketplace 07.jpg
shop	military_surplus	Shop selling used military equipment	
Shop-other-16.svg
Military surplus2.jpg
shop	motorcycle	Shop focused on selling motorcycles and/or related accessories, clothes, parts, and rental services.	
Shop motorcycle.svg
KAWASAKI KLR 650.JPG
shop	motorcycle_repair	Shop focused on motorcycle repair.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Motorcycle repair shop in Thailand.jpg
shop	outdoor	Shop focused on selling camping, walking, climbing, and other outdoor sports equipment (GPSes, etc.)	
Outdoor-14.svg
Winfield's Camping Shop - geograph.org.uk - 267174.jpg
shop	scuba_diving	Shop focused on selling scuba diving equipment.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Paradise Dive Shop.jpg
shop	ski	Shop focused on selling skis, ski equipment and may rent or repair them	
Shop-other-16.svg
Skier-carving-a-turn.jpg
shop	snowmobile	Shop focused on selling snowmobiles, snowmobile equipment and may rent or repair them	
Shop-other-16.svg
Snowmobiling in New Brunswick, Canada 2010.jpg
shop	sports	Shop focused on selling sporting goods.	
Sports-14.svg
HK TST East Mody Road Wing On Plaza Shop Kettler Sport Fitness.JPG
shop	surf	Shop selling surfboards, sailboards, wakeboards, and other types of surf style boards. and/or related accessories, clothes, parts, repair and rental services.	
Shop-other-16.svg
The Surfboards (8422914814)
shop	swimming_pool	A store that sells swimming pool equipment and supplies.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Circuit tuyauterie robot hydraulique.jpg
shop	trailer	Shop focused on selling trailers and parts and/or repairing / renting them	
Shop-other-16.svg
Kugelkopfkupplung-Anhänger.JPG
shop	truck	Shop focused on selling trucks and other commercial vehicles	
Shop-other-16.svg
Kenworth Dealer Hall of Fame, 2015 (08).JPG
shop	tyres	Shop focused on selling tyres.	
Tyres.svg
Istanbul Continental tyre shop.jpg
Art, music, hobbies
shop	art	Shop which sells works of art. May be paintings, sculpture, or other types of art	
Art-14.svg
Ruiz gallery.jpg
shop	camera	A shop mainly selling cameras and lenses	
Shop-other-16.svg
Nikkor Lens Showcase @ Berjaya Times Square's Nikon Centre.jpg
shop	collector	A shop for different collector's items like stamps, coins, action figures, etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Shop collector.jpg
shop	craft	An arts and crafts supply store. Commonly sold items are paper, canvas, paint, pencils, crafting wood, crafting tools, etc. – look at craft=*	
Shop-other-16.svg
Studio Arts Crafts and Graphics interior - panoramio (1).jpg
shop	frame	Shop focused on selling frames.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Shop frames berlin.jpg
shop	games	Shop focused on selling board games, card games and/or role-playing games.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Essen 2008 0251.jpg
shop	model	Shop specialising in the sale of scale models.	
Shop-other-16.svg
South-Goodwin.jpg
shop	music	Shop focused on selling recorded music (vinyl/CDs/...)	
Shop music.svg
Music shop.JPG
shop	musical_instrument	Shop focused on selling musical instruments, lyrics, scores. If focused on a specific instrument, specify with musical_instrument=*	
Musical instrument-14.svg
Portadown (66), September 2009.JPG
shop	photo	Shop focused on selling products or services related with photography.	
Photo-14.svg
Fujifilm photo shop.jpg
shop	trophy	Store selling trophies, awards, plaques etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Geograph-2329589-by-Robin-Stott.jpg
shop	video	Shop focused on selling or renting out videos/DVDs.	
Video-14.svg
Video shop.jpg
shop	video_games	Shop focused on selling video games.	
Video games-14.svg
GameStop on Powell Street in San Francisco, California.
Stationery, gifts, books, newspapers
shop	anime	Shop focused on selling anime stuff.	
Shop-other-16.svg
2013TIBE Day4 Hall2 Greenwood 20130202.JPG
shop	books	Shop focused on selling books (for a library that lends books, see amenity=library)	
Books-16.svg
Strand basement jeh.jpg
shop	gift	Shop focused on selling gifts, greeting cards, or tourist gifts (souvenirs)	
Gift-16.svg
Gift shop interior.jpg
shop	lottery	A shop of which the main or only purpose is the sale of lottery tickets.	
Shop-other-16.svg
12 Kościuszki Street in Sanok (2015), Lotto.jpg
shop	newsagent	Shop focused on selling newspapers, cigarettes, other goods	
Newsagent-14.svg
HK Sheung Wan Po Yan Street 7-11 Shop Newspaper Stand.JPG
shop	stationery	Shop focused on selling office supplies	
Stationery-14.svg
Vănphòngphẩm-InsideStationeryShop03012009606.jpg
shop	ticket	Shop focused on selling tickets for concerts, events, public transport, …	
Ticket-14.svg
Box office of Shosha station.jpg
Others
shop	bookmaker	A shop that takes bets on sporting and other events at agreed upon odds.	
Bookmaker-14.svg
Ladbrokes - 263 Park Lane (2299743817).jpg
shop	cannabis	a shop primarily and legally selling non-medical cannabis products	
Shop-other-16.svg
Venta de cannabis, Ketchikan, Alaska, Estados Unidos, 2017-08-16, DD 58.jpg
shop	copyshop	Shop focused on selling photocopying and printing services.	
Copyshop-14.svg
HK 上環 Sheung Wan 蘇杭街 Jervois Street 24 photo copy print co shop.JPG
shop	dry_cleaning	Shop or kiosk offering a clothes dry cleaning service. The actual cleaning may be done elsewhere.	
Laundry-14.svg
Dry clean rack.jpg
shop	e-cigarette	Shop focused on selling electronic cigarettes.	
Shop-other-16.svg
510N e-cigarette and e-liquids.jpg
shop	funeral_directors	Providing services related to funeral arrangements, may also be known as a "funeral parlour" or "undertakers".	
Shop-other-16.svg
JapaneseFuneralArrangementTokyo.jpg
shop	laundry	A shop to get your normal clothes washed. Might be self service coin operated, with service staff for drop off, …	
Laundry-14.svg
Polarstern laundry hg.jpg
shop	money_lender	A money lender offers small personal loans at high rates of interest.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Money lender Palmers Green.jpg
shop	outpost	Shop primarily used to pick-up items ordered online.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Coles Supermarket Click & Collect service, Corinda, Queensland, 2021.jpg
shop	party	A shop for party and festival supplies, like costumes, etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Shop party.jpg
shop	pawnbroker	A pawnbroker (or pawnshop) is an individual or business that offers secured loans to people. See also shop=second_hand	
Shop-other-16.svg
Pawnbroker Oulu 20090906.JPG
shop	pest_control	Shop selling pest control goods to exterminate rats, insects etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Atomic Pest Control 2371 Elvis-Presley-Blvd Memphis TN.jpg
shop	pet	A shop for pets, animals and toys or food for them.	
Pet-16.svg
Baby parrots in a pet shop-8a.jpg
shop	pet_grooming	A shop offering grooming services for pets (most frequently dogs)	
Shop-other-16.svg
Psi fryzjer.jpg
shop	pyrotechnics	Store of pyrotechnics: fireworks, firecrackers, sparklers etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
TNT Fireworks Supercenter, Jennings (East face).JPG
shop	religion	Shop focused on selling religious articles, church shop. See also religion=*	
Shop-other-16.svg
Shop religion.jpg
shop	rental	Shop that rents different kinds of vehicles or (sport) equipment	
Shop-other-16.svg
Vehicles rental.png
shop	storage_rental	self storage	
Shop-other-16.svg
Self storage units.jpg
shop	tobacco	Shop focused on selling tobacco, cigarettes and their related accessories.	
Tobacco-14.svg
Fachgeschäft für Tabakwaren.JPG
shop	toys	Shop focused on selling toys.	
Toys-14.svg
HK Toys R Us.JPG
shop	travel_agency	Shop focused on selling tickets for travelling. Also known as a tour operator.	
Travel agency-14.svg
Shop travel agency berlin.jpg
shop	vacant	An unused vacant shop. Can be used for an empty or abandoned retail space that seems to be available for lease or purchase where a retail store (or similar businesses) may be opened. No store is being operated in a vacant shop, and neither goods nor services are being offered. This tag can be used after a store was closed or for a newly built shop before any busisness was operated in the shop.		
2012-05-02 Carrera de San Jeronimo anagoria.JPG
shop	weapons	Shop focused on selling weapons like knives, guns etc.	
Shop-other-16.svg
Welcome to America - Supermarket with guns.jpg
shop	yes	A shop of unspecified type – it is always better to use another value that gives info about shop type, if possible. Used also as indicator that feature such as fuel station has a shop.		
shop	user defined	Category:Tag descriptions for key "shop" listing also values not presented here, only widely used shop tags are added to this page. All commonly used values according to Taginfo	
Shop-other-16.svg
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Telecom
These are used to map telecommunication systems.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
telecom	exchange	 	A place to connect landlines subscribers to telecommunication service equipments	
telecom	connection_point	 	Last point of telecom local loops allowing direct connections towards a few households and subscribers	
telecom	distribution_point		Equipment, often small boxes, allowing to directly connect up to 15 individuals or households to a single upstream local loop cable towards telecom exchanges	
telecom	service_device	 	Active equipment which deliver service to connected customers. It can be for instance a DSLAM, a telephone switch, or more recently an OLT for optical networks. It excludes amplifiers or repeaters installed along local loops or long distance lines.	
telecom	data_center	 	A building used to house computers and network equipment.	
telecom	line		A telecommunication line.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Tourism
This is used to map places and things of specific interest to tourists. For example these may be places to see, places to stay and things and places providing support. See the page titled Tourism for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
tourism	alpine_hut	 	A remote building located in the mountains intended to provide board and lodging.		
tourism	apartment	 	A furnished apartment or flat with cooking and bathroom facilities that can be rented for holiday vacations.		
tourism	aquarium	 	A facility with living aquatic animals for public viewing.		
tourism	artwork	  	A public piece of art.		
tourism	attraction	  	An object of interest for a tourist, or a purpose-built tourist attraction		
tourism	camp_pitch	 	A tent or caravan pitch location within a campsite or caravan site.		
tourism	camp_site	 	An area where people can camp overnight using tents, camper vans, or caravans.		
tourism	caravan_site	 	A place where you can stay in a caravan overnight or for longer periods.		
tourism	chalet	 	A holiday cottage with self-contained cooking and bathroom facilities.		
tourism	gallery	 	An area or building that displays a variety of visual art exhibitions.		
tourism	guest_house	 	Accommodation smaller than a hotel and typically owner-operated, such as bed&breakfasts etc.		
tourism	hostel	 	Cheap accommodation with shared bedrooms.		
tourism	hotel	 	Hotel – an establishment that provides paid lodging.		
tourism	information	 	Information for tourists and visitors, including information offices		
tourism	motel	 	Short term accommodation, particularly for people travelling by car.		
tourism	museum	 	A museum: an institution with exhibitions on scientific, historical, cultural topics		
tourism	picnic_site	 	A locality that is suitable for outdoors eating, with facilities to aid a picnic such as tables and benches.		
tourism	theme_park	 	An amusement park where entertainment is provided by rides, games, concessions.		
tourism	viewpoint	 	A place worth visiting, often high, with a good view of surrounding countryside or notable buildings.		
tourism	wilderness_hut	 	A remote building, typically unserviced, providing temporary shelter and sleeping accommodation.		
tourism	zoo	 	A zoological garden, where animals are confined for viewing by the public.		
tourism	yes	 	A general tourist attraction.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Water
This is used to describe type of water body and is only used together with natural=water.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
water	river		The water covered area of a river.		
water	oxbow		An oxbow lake		
water	canal		The area covered by the water of a canal		
water	ditch		The water covered area of a waterway=ditch - a simple artificial waterway serving as a barrier or for draining surrounding land.		
water	lock		Water area of the lock chamber.		
water	fish_pass		Area of a fish pass for the fish to pass waterway dams or weirs. Should contain tag:waterway=fish_pass way inside.		
water	lake	 	A natural or semi-natural body of relatively still fresh or salt water which is surrounded by land.		
water	reservoir		An artificial lake which may be used to store water. Usually formed by a dam over a natural water course.		
water	pond	 	A small body of standing water, man-made in most cases		
water	basin	 	An area of land artificially graded to hold water.		
water	lagoon		A body of shallow sea water or brackish water separated from the sea by a barrier.		
water	stream_pool		A stream pool: a small but relatively deep collection of fresh water, occurring along a narrow stream.		
water	reflecting_pool		A shallow pool of water, undisturbed by fountain jets, for a calm reflective surface, often found in gardens, squares or at memorial sites		
water	moat		A deep, wide defensive ditch, normally filled with water, dug to surround a fortified habitation.		
water	wastewater		A clarifier or settling basin of a wastewater treatment plant.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Waterway
This is used to described different types of waterways. When mapping the way of a river, stream, drain, canal, etc. these need to be aligned in the direction of the water flow. See the page titled Waterways for an introduction on its usage.

Natural watercourses
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
waterway	river	 	The linear flow of a river, in flow direction.		
waterway	riverbank		Using this tag is discouraged, use tag:natural=water + tag:water=river instead.		
waterway	stream	 	A naturally-forming waterway that is too narrow to be classed as a river.		
waterway	tidal_channel		A natural intertidal waterway in mangroves, salt marshes, and tidal flats with water flow in the direction of the tide.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Man-made waterways
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
waterway	canal	 	An artificial open flow waterway used to carry useful water for transportation, waterpower, or irrigation.		
waterway	drain	 	An artificial free flow waterway used for carrying superfluous water, usually lined with concrete.		
waterway	ditch	 	A small artificial drainage waterway, usually unlined.		
waterway	pressurised		An artificial waterway where water flows in a closed space without air		
waterway	fairway		A navigable route in a lake or sea, often marked by buoys or beacons.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Facilities
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
waterway	dock	 	An enclosed area for ships or boats within which the height of the water can be managed, or a dry dock.		
waterway	boatyard	 	A place for constructing, repairing and storing vessels out of the water.		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Barriers on waterways
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
waterway	dam	  	A barrier built across a river or stream to block and regulate the flow of the river.		
waterway	weir	  	A barrier built across a river to control water speed and depth. Designed to let water flow over the top all the time or at least in specific conditions.		
waterway	waterfall		A place where water flows over a vertical drop or a series of drops in the course of a stream or river.		
waterway	lock_gate	 	A gate of a lock		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Other features on waterways
Key	Value	Element	Description	Map rendering	Image
waterway	soakhole		The point at which a river or stream percolates into or through the soil		
waterway	turning_point		A place to turn the driving direction for vessels, where the boats are longer than the river/canal is wide.		
waterway	water_point		A place to fill fresh water holding tanks of a boat.		
waterway	fuel	 	A place to get fuel for boats		
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Additional properties
Addresses
This is used to provide postal information for a building or facility. See the pages titled Addresses and addr:*=* for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Rendering	Photo
Tags for individual houses
addr:housenumber	user defined	node area	The house number (may contain letters, dashes or other characters).
Addresses describes ways to tag a single building with multiple addresses.
Please do not only tag addr:housenumber=*, but also add at least addr:street=* or addr:place=* for places without streets (or map the belonging to a street with a relation using associatedStreet relation or street relation.)	Addr-housenumber rendering.png	
Ferry Street, Portaferry (09), October 2009.JPG
addr:housename	user defined	node area	The name of a house.
This is sometimes used in some countries like England, Spain, Portugal, Latvia instead of (or in addition to) a house number.		
House-name sign, Main Street Aberlady. - geograph.org.uk - 1753443.jpg
addr:flats	user defined	node	The unit numbers (a range or a list) of the flats or apartments located behind a single entrance door.	Rendering of addr flats 2.png	Flat numbers on an entrance.png
addr:conscriptionnumber	user defined	node area	This special kind of housenumber relates to a settlement instead of a street. Conscription numbers were introduced in the Austro-Hungarian Empire and are still in use in some parts of Europe, sometimes together with street-related housenumbers which are also called orientation numbers.		
Konskriptionsnummer.jpg
addr:street	user defined	node area	The name of the respective street. If the street name is very long or nonexistent, the ref of the respective street.
A way with highway=* or a square with place=square and the corresponding name should be found nearby. The belonging to a street can alternatively be represented by a associatedStreet relation or street relation. The keys addr:housenumber=* and addr:street=* in principle are the only necessary ones if there are valid border polygons. If you are not sure if it is so, just add addr:city=*, addr:postcode=* and addr:country=*.		
UK - London (30474933636).jpg
addr:place	user defined	node area	This is part of an address which refers to the name of some territorial zone (usually a place=* like island, square or very small village) instead of a street (highway=*). Should not be used together with addr:street=*.		
addr:postcode	user defined	node area	The postal code of the building/area. Some mappers prefer to rely on boundary=postal_code		
addr:city	user defined	node area	The name of the city as given in postal addresses of the building/area. (In some places the city in the address corresponds to the post office that serves the area rather than the actual city, if any, in which the building is located.) Some mappers assume it can be derived from a boundary=administrative relation.		
Lillerod.jpg
addr:country	user defined	node area	The ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 two letter country code in upper case.
Example: "DE" for Germany, "CH" for Switzerland, "AT" for Austria, "FR" for France, "IT" for Italy.
Caveat: The ISO 3166-1 code for Great Britain is "GB" and not "UK". More or less favoured in different national communities.		
addr:postbox	user defined	node area	Use this for addressing postal service Post Office Box (PO Box, BP - Boîte Postale, CP - Case Postale, Поштански преградак, Поштански фах, Поштански претинац) as alternative to addressing using street names. Example: "PO Box 34"		
addr:full	user defined	node area	Use this for a full-text, often multi-line, address if you find the structured address fields unsuitable for denoting the address of this particular location. Examples: "Fifth house on the left after the village oak, Smalltown, Smallcountry", or addresses using special delivery names or codes (possibly via an unrelated city name and post code), or PO Boxes.
Beware that these strings can hardly be parsed by software: "1200 West Sunset Boulevard Suite 110A" is still better represented as addr:housenumber=1200 + addr:street=West Sunset Boulevard + addr:unit=110A.		
For countries using hamlet, subdistrict, district, province, state, county
addr:hamlet	user defined	node area	The hamlet of the object. In France, some addresses use hamlets instead of street names, use the generic addr:place=* instead.		
Grosvenor Place 2 2008 06 19.jpg
addr:suburb	user defined	node area	If an address exists several times in a city. You have to add the name of the settlement. See Australian definition of suburb.	
addr:subdistrict	user defined	node area	The subdistrict of the object.	
addr:district	user defined	node area	The district of the object.	
addr:province	user defined	node area	The province of the object. For Canada, uppercase two-letter postal abbreviations (BC, AB, ON, QC, etc.) are used. In Russia a synonym {{{key:addr:region}}} is widely used		
addr:state	user defined	node area	The state of the object. For the US, uppercase two-letter postal abbreviations (AK, CA, HI, NY, TX, WY, etc.) are used.		
addr:county	user defined	node area	The county of the object.		
Tags for interpolation ways
addr:interpolation	all/even/odd/ alphabetic	way	How to interpolate the house numbers belonging to the way along the respective street.
See detailed description.		
Spořilov, Púchovská, označení domu.jpg
addr:interpolation	Number n	way	Every nth house between the end nodes is represented by the interpolation way.	
addr:inclusion	actual/estimate/potential	way	Optional tag to indicate the accuracy level of survey used to create the address interpolation way.
See detailed description.	
This section is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Annotations
Providing further information about tag values for other mappers and in some cases also for users. See the page titled Annotations for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
comment		   	A comment.	
contact:email		   	An email address associated with the object.	
contact:fax		   	A fax number associated with the object.	
contact:phone		   	A telephone number associated with the object. Use +CC XXX XXX XXX format, where CC is a country code.	
contact:sms				
contact:website		   	Specifies the link to the official website for a feature.	
delivery:*				
description		   	To provide additional information about the related element to the end map user.	
drive_through:*				
email		   	An email address associated with the object	
fax		   	A fax number associated with the object.	
fixme		   	Description of a (possible) error in the map.	
image		   	Reference to an image of the object.	
note		   	A note to yourself or to other mappers.	
phone		   	A telephone number associated with the object. Use +CC XXX XXX XXX format, where CC is a country code.	
source		   	For indicating the source of all tags added to the OSM database.	
source	extrapolation			
source	historical			
source	image			
source	knowledge			
source	survey			
source	voice			
source:geometry		   	Indicates the source of the geometry of an object.	
source:name		   	For indicating the source of a name information.	
source:ref				
source_ref		   	Used to link external source of information: photos, video links	
takeaway:*				
wikipedia		   	Provides a link to Wikipedia's article about the feature.	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Name
The name=* tag is the primary tag used for mapping the name of an element. See the page titled Names for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Comment
name	User defined	node way area	The common default name. Notes:
For disputed areas, please use the name as displayed on, e.g., street signs for the name tag
Put all alternatives into either localized name tags (e.g., name:tr/name:el) or the variants (e.g., loc_name/old_name/alt_name)
Do not abbreviate words: abbreviations
For details refer to Names#Good_practice.

name:<xx>	User defined	node way area	Name in different language; e.g., name:fr=Londres. Note that all key variants below can use a language suffix. See: Multilingual names.
name:left[:<xx>], name:right[:<xx>]	User defined	way	Used when a way has different names for different sides (e.g., a street that's forming the boundary between two municipalities).
int_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	International name. Consider using language specific names instead; e.g., name:en=.... International does not (necessarily) mean English. It is used to give the name transliterated to Latin script in Belarus, Bulgaria, Greece, Kazakhstan and Northern Macedonia
loc_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Local name.
nat_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	National name.
official_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Official name. Useful where there is some elaborate official name, while a different one is a common name typically used. Example: official_name=Principat d'Andorra (where "name" is name=Andorra).
old_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Historical/old name, still in some use.
ref_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Unique, human-readable name of this object in an external data management system.
reg_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Regional name.
short_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Should be a recognizable commonly-used short version of the name, not a nickname (use alt_name for that), useful for searching (recognized by Nominatim).
sorting_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Name, used for correct sorting of names — This is only needed when sorting names cannot be based only on their orthography (using the Unicode Collation Algorithm with collation tables tailored by language and script, or when sorted lists of names are including names written in multiple languages and/or scripts) but requires ignoring some parts such as:
ignoring leading articles, or
lowering the relative importance of first names cited before a last name,
ignoring the generic part of a street name when it occurs before the specific name (e.g., in French with "rue", "boulevard", "place", etc.),
all of them being ignored at the primary sort level and not easily inferable by a preprocessing algorithm.

alt_name[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Alternative name by which the feature is known. If there is a name that does not fit in any of the above keys, alt_name can be used; e.g., name=Field Fare Road and alt_name=Fieldfare Road, or name=University Centre and alt_name=Grad Pad. In rare cases, the key is used for multiple semicolon-separated names; e.g. alt_name=name1;name2;name3, but this usage is not preferred.
nickname[:<xx>]	User defined	node way area	Nickname (e.g. "Warschauer Allee" for BAB 2 in Germany relation 3140168).
name_1 , name_2 , ...			Do not use this tag, suffixed name tagging for multiple values is deprecated.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Properties
Properties are those keys and tags which, in contrast to top-level tags, are used to give additional information of a general nature about another element.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Photo
area	yes	area	Means a feature that is normally linear is an area. You should not add this to features that are already defined as an area type.	
Mapnik area pedestrian.png
brand	user defined	node area	Brand of the feature.	
Fast food.jpg
bridge	yes / aqueduct / viaduct / cantilever / movable / covered / …	way	A bridge, use together with the tag layer=*. Value yes is generic, or you can specialize.	
2014 Karwina, Darków, Most żelbetowy 01.jpg
capacity	amount	node area	Used for specifying capacity of a facility.	
Maximum occupancy sign, Ohio University Convocation Center.jpg
charge	amount	node way area	Used for specifying how much is charged for use/access to a facility. See toll=* or fee=*.	
Dollarnote hq.jpg
clothes	see key's page	node area	Tagged on shops and other features to denote if they sell clothes or not and what type of clothes they sell.	
Hasseen2.jpg
covered	yes	node way area	Used to denote that a node, way or area is covered by another entity (or in some cases the ground), when the use of layers is inappropriate, or additional clarification is needed.	
Covered.jpg
crossing	no / traffic_signals / uncontrolled / island / unmarked	node	Further refinement for nodes already tagged with highway=crossing or railway=crossing	
Zebra-crossing sm.jpg
crossing:island	yes / no	node way	Specifies whether a pedestrian crossing has a refuge island	
Praha 10 ulice Ruska 10 prechod s ostruvkem.JPG
cutting	yes / left / right	way	A cut in the land to carry a road or tram. Mostly in hilly landscape. See Cutting on Wikipedia	
Road cut.jpg
disused	yes	node way area	For features that are useful for navigation, yet are unused. See abandoned=* if infrastructure is removed.	
Closed down shop.jpg
drinking_water	yes / no	node area	Describes whether a drinking water is available	
Brass water tap.jpg
drive_through	yes / no	node area	Used to indicate if a pharmacy, bank, atm, or fast_food, or post_box offers drive_thru service. drive_through=* is different than drive_in=*}	
Drive-through ATM.jpg
drive_in	yes / no	node area	Used to indicate if a cinema is a drive-in cinema or a restaurant offers drive-in service. drive_in=* is different than drive_through=*	
Autokino gravenbruch.jpg
electrified	contact_line / rail	way	Indicates infrastructure to supply vehicles with electricity on rail tracks	
Caténaire 1,5 kV 01.jpg
ele	Number	node area	Elevation (also known as altitude or height) above mean sea level in metre, based on geoid model EGM 96 which is used by WGS 84 (GPS). (see also Altitude)	
Key-ele mapnik.png
embankment	yes	way	A raised bank to carry a road, railway, or canal across a low-lying or wet area. See Embankment on Wikipedia	
Embankment.jpg
end_date	Date	way	Date feature was removed	
Target Closing Sign Gastonia, NC (6995771381).jpg
est_width	Number	way	A rough guess of the width of way in metres	
Height demonstration diagram.png
fee	yes / no	node area	Used for specifying whether fee is charged for use/access to a facility. See also toll=*.	
Tenerife telescope C.jpg
fire_object:type	poo / szo	node way area	Potentially dangerous and socially significant objects	
fire_operator	Name	node way area	Fire station, which serves the object	
fire_rank	1bis / 2 to 5	node way area	Rank fire, defined for a particular object	
frequency	Number	node way area	Frequency in Hz	
Wave frequency.gif
hazard	see hazard	node way area	Indicates of the hazards.	
DIN 4844-2 Warnung vor einer Gefahrenstelle D-W000.svg
hot_water	yes / no	node area	Describes whether a hot water is available	
inscription	User Defined	node way area	The full text of inscriptions, which can be found on buildings, memorials and other objects.	
Beneventum, Arch of Trajan (III) (4749426050).jpg
internet_access	yes / wired / wlan / terminal / no	node area	This tag is for indication that a map entity such as a building, a shop, restaurant, etc. offers internet access to the public, either as a paid service or even for free.	
Internet-Sign.jpg
layer	-5 to 5	way	0: ground (default); -1..-5:under ground layer; 1..5 (not +1):above ground layer
This is intended to indicate actual physical separation, shouldn't be used just to influence rendering order.	
Washington layers.png
leaf_cycle	evergreen / deciduous / semi_evergreen / semi_deciduous / mixed	node way area	Describes the phenology of leaves	
Olga Wisinger-Florian - Falling Leaves.JPG
leaf_type	broadleaved / needleleaved / mixed / leafless	node way area	Describes the type of leaves	
Picea abies Nadelkissen.jpg
location	underground / overground / underwater / roof / indoor	node way area	Location	
Power to the People - geograph.org.uk - 560240.jpg
narrow	yes	way	Relative indication that a way (waterway, highway, cycleway) gets narrower.	
Narrow-sign.jpg
nudism	yes / obligatory / designated / no / customary / permissive	node area	Indicates if the described object provides the possibility of nudism	
CapdAgde crop.jpg
opening_hours	24/7 or mo md hh:mm-hh:mm. (read described syntax)	node way area	opening_hours describes when something is open.	
Neon Internet Cafe open 24 hours.jpg
opening_hours:drive_through	24/7 or mo md hh:mm-hh:mm. (read described syntax)	node area	opening_hours describes when something is open for drive-through services.	
Pizza Hut - 5625 Gull Road, Kalamazoo (51123964537).jpg
operator	User Defined	node way area	The operator tag can be used to name a company or corporation who's responsible for a certain object or who operates it.	
power_supply	yes / no	node area	Describes whether a power supply is available	
20061007 3P N PE CEE connections.jpg
produce	User Defined	node area relation	Describes a feature's agricultural output produced though a natural process of growing or breeding.	
La Boqueria.JPG
rental	see key's page	node area	Tagged on shops and other features to denote if they rent something or not and what they rent.	
X2 Segway (6325395763).jpg
sauna	yes / no	node area	Describes whether a sauna is available	
Highgrove Sauna.jpg
service_times	see opening_hours	node area	Times of service of a given feature e.g. church service	
St Andrew's Church (Kowloon) Service times 2012.jpg
shower	yes / no	node area	Describes whether a shower is available	
Shower close up.jpg
sport	soccer / tennis / basketball / baseball / multi / ...	node way area	Describes which sports are placed on a facility such as a pitch or stadium.	
Sport balls.svg
start_date	Date	node way area relation	Date feature was created	
Zero kilometre mark in Paris, 23 June 2013.jpg
tactile_paving	yes /no	node way area	Indicate if a specific place can be detected or followed with a blindman's stick.	
Tactile paving.jpg
tidal	yes	area	Area is flooded by the tide	
Onehunga Shoreline For Reclamation.jpg
toilets	yes / no	node area	Describes whether a toilets is available	
Amenity toilets.svg
topless	yes / no	node area	Indicates if the described object provides the possibility of female topless practice	
Malta - St. Julian's - Triq Il-Wilga 02 No Topless Bathing.jpg
tunnel	yes	way	A tunnel, use together with a tag layer=*.	
Boston Tunnel Entrance.jpg
toilets:wheelchair	yes / no	node area	States if a location has a wheelchair accessible toilet or not.	
Lazienka-niepelnosprawnych-dworzec-warszawa-wschodnia.jpg
wheelchair	yes / no / limited	node way area	Indicates if a place is accessible using a wheelchair.	
Standard rollstuhl.jpg
width	Number	way	Width of way in metres	
Height demonstration diagram.png
wood	coniferous / deciduous / mixed	node area	Applies to landuse=forest and natural=wood detailing the sort of trees found within each landuse. Makes most sense when applied to areas.
Be careful : this tag is now deprecated, please use instead leaf_cycle=*	
Diqing, Yunnan, China.jpg
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
References
This is used to add reference information for an element.

Key	Value	Element	Description	Image
iata		 	Indicates the IATA airport code	
icao		 	Indicates the ICAO airport code	
int_ref			International reference number or code on roads, highway exits, routes, etc.	
lcn_ref			The node number of a numbered junction in a local cycling node network	
loc_ref		   	Local reference number or code.	
local_ref		  	local reference/local platform number	
nat_ref		   	National reference ("Nationally referenced as...").	
ncn_ref		 	The reference for a national cycle route.	
old_ref		   	Historical reference.	
rcn_ref			The number of the regional cycle network.	
ref		   	Used for reference numbers or codes. Common for roads, highway exits, routes, entrances to big buildings etc.	
reg_ref		   	Regional reference	
route_ref		  	Route reference (number/code) cognizable on public transport stop signs	
source_ref		   	Used to link external source of information: photos, video links	
This table is auto-generated. See Template:Taglist for a documentation on it.
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Restrictions
This is used to define restrictions that apply to the associated element. See the page titled Restrictions for an introduction on its usage.

Key	Value	Element	Comment	Image
Vehicle types
access	agricultural
delivery
designated
destination
forestry
no
official
permissive
private
yes	way	General access permission.
agricultural – Only for agricultural traffic
delivery – Only when delivering to the element.
designated – A preferred or designated route for a specific vehicle type or types. Not compulsory but often marked by a traffic sign
destination – Used for ways in designated local traffic areas, where traffic should only enter if its destination is within the area
forestry – Only for forestry traffic
no – No access for the general public. Consider using another tag indicating who can use the element
official – The way is dedicated to a specific mode of travel by law. Usually marked by traffic signs and exclusive. In Germany use is also compulsory. clarification needed
permissive – Open to general traffic until such time as the owner revokes the permission which they are legally allowed to do at any time in the future.
private – Only with permission of the owner on an individual basis
yes – The public has an official, legal right of access, i.e. it's a right of way (default value)
WhichAccess.png
agricultural	yes / no	way	Access permission for agricultural vehicles, e.g. tractors.	
Sinnbild Traktor.svg
atv	For values see access above	way	Access restricted to wheeled vehicles 1.27m (50 inches) or less in width, for example ATV	
Pictograms ATV All terrain Quad.svg
bdouble	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for Road Train B-double. A B-double (B-Train) consists of a prime mover towing a specialised trailer (known as a "lead" or "A"-trailer) that has a fifth-wheel mounted on the rear towing another semi-trailer, resulting in two articulation points.	
B-double.png
bicycle	For values see access above + dismount	way	Access permission for bicycles. Usage of bicycle=dismount and bicycle=no will vary in different countries. If according to local traffic rules a bicycle is no longer seen as a bicycle when there's no one driving it, then there's no need for using bicycle=dismount. If the local legislation still sees an undriven bicycle as a bicycle then you may need to use both bicycle=dismount and bicycle=no.	
Sinnbild Radfahrer, StVO 1992.svg
boat	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for small boats and pleasure crafts, including yachts	
Sailboat symbol.svg
bus	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for buses acting as public transport vehicles	
Sinnbild Kraftomnibus.svg
carriage	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for carriage drawn by horse(s) or other animals	
Sinnbild - Gespannfuhrwerke, StVO 1970.svg
cycle_rickshaw	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for two-tracked human powered pedal vehicles	
Cycle rickshaw symbol.svg
electric_bicycle	For values see access above	way node area	Access permission for electric bicycles (mostly defined as having a maximum speed of 25 km/h)	
Electric Bicycle Japan.jpg
emergency	yes	way	Access permission for emergency motor vehicles; e.g., ambulance, fire truck, police car	
MB-emergency edited.svg
foot	For values see access above	way	Access permission for pedestrians.	
Sinnbild Fußgänger.svg
forestry	yes / no	way	Access permission for forestry vehicles, e.g. tractors.	
HarvesterKieferwld.jpg
golf_cart	For values see access above	way	Access permission for golf carts and similar small, low-speed electric vehicles	
Oak Valley Snow Park Korea 15.JPG
goods	For values see access above	way	Access permission for light commercial vehicles (LCV) or goods vehicles of category N1 with a maximum allowed mass of up to 3.5 tonnes. In the USA, combined weight 26,000 lbs or less.	
Sinnbild LKW.svg
hand_cart	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for human-pulled/pushed hand carts	
Sinnbild - Fußgänger mit Handfahrzeugen oder sperrigen Gegenständen.svg
hazmat	For values see access above	way	Access permission for vehicles carrying hazardous materials.	
Zeichen 261 stripped.svg
hgv	For values see access above	way	Access permission for Heavy Goods Vehicles (HGV) (UK), e.g. for goods vehicles of category N2 and N3 (trucks, lorries) with a maximum allowed mass over 3.5 tonnes. In the USA, combined weight 26,001 lbs or greater.	
Sinnbild LKW.svg
horse	For values see access above	way	Access permission for horse riders.	
Sinnbild Reiter, StVO 1992.svg
hov	For values see access above	way	Access permission for high-occupancy vehicles	
Car sign with two persons.svg
inline_skates	yes / no	way node area	Access permission for Inline Skates	
Pictograms-nps-land-in-line skating stripped.svg
lhv	For values see access above	way	Access permission for Longer Heavier Vehicle (LHV), e.g. for vehicles with 6 axles and can carry up to 44 metric tons	
Sinnbild LKW mit Anhänger.svg
mofa	For values see access above	way	Access permission for mofas	
Sinnbild Mofa.svg
moped	For values see access above	way	Access permission for mopeds	
Icon moped.png
motorboat	For values see access above	way area	Access permission boats and yachts using motor	
Speedboat symbol.svg
motorcar	For values see access above	way	Access permission for (motor) cars	
Sinnbild PKW.svg
motorcycle	For values see access above	way	Access permission for motorcycles	
Sinnbild Kraftrad.svg
motor_vehicle	For values see access above	way	Access permission for any motorized vehicle	
Zeichen 260 stripped.svg
psv	For values see access above	way	Access permission for Public Service Vehicles (UK), e.g. buses and coaches	
Sinnbild Kraftomnibus.svg
roadtrain	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for Road train, A road train consists of a relatively conventional tractor unit, but instead of pulling one trailer or semi-trailer, the road train pulls two or more of them.	
Aust config.png
ski	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for skiers	
Norwegian-road-sign-790.32.svg
speed_pedelec	For values see access above	way node area	Access permission for electric bicycles (mostly defined as having a maximum speed of 45 km/h)	
Riese und Müller New Charger S-Pedelec links.jpg
tank	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for (military) tanks	
Panzer aus Zusatzzeichen 1049-12.svg
taxi	For values see access above	way	Access permission for taxis	
Aiga taxi.svg
trailer	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for vehicles with trailers	
Sinnbild PKW mit Anhänger.svg
tourist_bus	For values see access above	way area	Access permission for buses that are not acting as public transport vehicles	
Sinnbild Reisebus.svg
vehicle	For values see access above	way	Access permission for all vehicles	
Zeichen 250 - Verbot für Fahrzeuge aller Art, StVO 1992.svg
4wd_only	yes	way	A road signed as only suitable for 4WD (offroad) vehicles	
Canning Stock Route.jpg
Other
alcohol	yes / no	node area	Whether alcohol is allowed, or what type of alcohol may be served, at a location.	
No alcohol-1.svg
dog	yes / no	node way area relation	Describes if dogs are allowed.	
Noun 364.svg
drinking_water:legal	yes / no	node area	Indication whether a feature is officially considered as a drinking water.	
Cape Town - Drough.jpg
female	yes	node area	Female-only or gender segregated (with male=yes) feature	
British Columbia I-024-1A.svg
gender_segregated	yes/no	nodearea	Used for indicating whether a feature has separated male and female facilities.	
Amenity toilets.svg
male	yes	node area	Male-only or gender segregated (with female=yes) feature	
British Columbia I-024-2A.svg
max_age	age	node area	The legal maximum age	
maxaxleload	Weight	way	The legal maximum axleload – units other than tonnes should be explicit	
Zeichen 263.svg
maxheight	Height	way	Height limit – units other than metres should be explicit	
Zeichen 265-3,8 - Verbot für Fahrzeuge über angegebene tatsächliche Höhe, StVO 2017.svg
maxlength	Length	way	Length limit – units other than metres should be explicit	
Zeichen 266-10 - Verbot für Fahrzeuge über angegebene tatsächliche Länge, StVO 2017.svg
maxspeed	Speed	way	Maximum speed – units other than km/h should be explicit	
Zeichen 274-60 - Zulässige Höchstgeschwindigkeit, StVO 2017.svg
maxstay	Duration	way	Maximum stay – units other than minutes should be explicit)	
Max stay cropped.png
maxweight	Weight	way	Weight limit – units other than tonnes should be explicit	
Zeichen 262-5,5 - Verbot für Fahrzeuge über angegebene tatsächliche Masse, StVO 2017.svg
maxwidth	Width	way	Width limit – units other than metres should be explicit	
Zeichen 264-2 - Verbot für Fahrzeuge über angegebene tatsächliche Breite, StVO 2017.svg
min_age	age	node area	The legal minimum age	
minspeed	Speed	way	Minimum speed – units other than km/h should be explicit	
Zeichen 275-30 - Vorgeschriebene Mindestgeschwindigkeit, StVO 2017.svg
noexit	yes	node way	A dead end road/cul de sac with only one access road	
Zeichen 357 - Sackgasse, StVO 1992.svg
oneway	yes / no / -1	way	
oneway=yes for traffic direction same as the sequence of nodes of the way.
oneway=no for bidirectional traffic.
oneway=-1 for traffic direction opposite to the sequence of nodes of the way (if the way cannot be reversed).
Some road types are assumed to be one-way (e.g. highway=motorway), others are assumed to be two-way (most others).	
OneWaySign.png
openfire	yes / no	node area relation	This property specifies whether open fires are allowed at a feature.	
Campsite Fireplace.svg
Relation:restriction		relation	Used for a set of tags and members to represent a turn restriction.	
France road sign B2b.svg
smoking	yes / no	node area relation	For marking applicable smoking rules. However, if a law mandates a given smoking rule, that need not be mapped.	
No Smoking.svg
toll	yes	node	Toll or fee must be paid to access way. See also barrier=toll_booth	
1 4 18 (Swedish road sign).svg
traffic_sign	city_limit	node	Start/end sign of city limits, in most countries implies a specific "city maxspeed".	
Denmark City limit sign begin.svg
unisex	yes	node area	Unisex feature	
Gender Neutral (13777) - The Noun Project.svg
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Categories: Proposals adminTagging guidelinesFeaturesSemantics
Navigation menu
English
Create account
Log in
PageDiscussion
ReadView sourceView history
Search
Search OpenStreetMap Wiki
Main Page
The map
Map Features
Contributors
Help
Blogs
Shop
Donations
Wiki discussion
Recent changes
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
Cite this page
This page was last edited on 19 March 2025, at 00:02.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 license unless otherwise noted.
Privacy policyAbout OpenStreetMap WikiDisclaimersMobile view
Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 licensePowered by MediaWiki